SANCTUM KTHADRAS

The Man Who Lives in the Room

1

The story opens as the main character, a man named Will, is arriving on his first day as a computer programmer at a large technology company in the city. Soon thereafter he learns the person who previously worked in his position, a young man named Joseph, committed suicide under mysterious circumstances. On his work computer, the same one used by Joseph, he discovers a password-protected text file. After some sleuthing he is able to open the file using a cryptic phrase in a suicide email that was cc’d to the entire company before Joseph killed himself, ‘BEWARE THE MAN WHO LIVES IN THE ROOM'.

At this point the story breaks into parallel narratives, because the contents of the file is a journal that Joseph kept his final months alive. At the top of the file was a somewhat silly and overwrought declamation: 'CURSED BE WHOSOEVER READS THIS CONFESSION OF MINE! THIS I SAY FOR YOUR. OWN. SAKE. DO NOT LET YOUR EYES FALL UPON THE WORDS THAT FOLLOW HEREAFTER! CLOSE THE DOOR WHILE YOU STILL CAN! TRUE MADNESS DOTH LIE WITHIN...'

Reading the journal from the beginning, Will learns Joseph was depressed because his mother passed away from breast cancer the previous year. He lived at home alone with his mother and is almost unable to deal with the loneliness he feels in the now empty house. (Joseph was a NEET-like person, anti-social, never had a girlfriend, overweight.) Joseph tells a story how one day, after drinking too much before work, he decided to tell everyone in the office exactly what he thought about them and is asked to leave early for the day. Driving home he picks up a hitchhiker, who tells him his mother is in the hospital sick and needs money to pay the doctor for the surgery. So they drive to an ATM and he gets out five hundred dollars and gives it to the obvious con man. The con man asks to get out at a McDonald's in the city and Joseph follows him on foot, detective-like, such is his state of mind, he really doesn't care about anything at this point. He follows the con man into the woods behind the McDonald's and eventually they come out behind the Murder Kroger. It is twilight. The con man enters a small door in the back. He follows the man inside and finds himself in a dim, tiny room with very dingy walls, almost slimy, and in the middle of this room is a friendly-looking man, who smiles and asks him, 'Where are you hurting, Joseph?' This man knows his name. It seems he knows everything about him. Still in that reckless frame of mind he tells the man he misses his mother. The man then takes Joseph's hand and places it on his heart. Suddenly he no longer feels the loneliness and the sadness. He feels light in his heart again. He returns home and has the best sleep he can remember. And only good dreams.

Will stops reading the journal and is so intrigued by the story of the mysterious man who lives in the room behind the Murder Kroger, and what he did for Joseph, he decides to find out for himself how much of this is true and how much is made-up bullshit. He visits the Murder Kroger and can find no room there, as described in Joseph's journal, even sneaking into the back area where the deliveries are made. In the employee break room, however, he does see a man that vaguely fits the description of the con man. He asks him if he ever met a guy named Joseph who gave him 500 dollars. The man looks suspicious but says 'Naw man, I don't know that dude. I'd remember somebody who gave me 5-hundy, know what I'm sayin?' and will say no more. Before Will leaves he notices a pendant hanging around the man's neck with an unusual symbol. He makes a mental note of it and goes home.

Returning to the journal he learns that Joseph enjoyed a few more days of happiness before he realized that when the man who lives in the room took away the sadness of his mother's death it left a very real hole inside. And over the course of more several days it became obvious the hole wanted to be filled, needed to be filled, like a compulsion, or more properly, a hunger. The quickest and easiest way to fill seems to be debauchery, so he goes out to bars and gets drunk, finds the easiest drugs he can get ahold of and takes them all. He eats at a Golden Corral until he vomits on the floor. All in the same night. When he wakes up in the morning he feels horrible, not just from being hungover, but from the things he did to himself. He has an idea that he should revisit the man who lives in the room, that maybe he can remove this feeling too. So he visits the Murder Kroger and goes around back and cannot find the door. It is just not there. As he sits in his car in the parking lot he reflects on the door and the man who lives in the room behind the door. It doesn't seem to follow the rules of this world, three dimensionality that is. Maybe he thinks, the location is not the only thing I need in order to find it again, but also the time of day and the path I took to get there. Maybe those are important too. So that evening he returns to the McDonald's around twilight and follows the same general path he took through the woods to emerge just behind the Murder Kroger. And sure enough the door is there. He enters the room and the man who lives inside is there, smiling at him. "Where are you hurting, Joseph?" he asks. Joseph tells him about the feeling of the hole and how he tried to make it go away with a night of debauchery. The man again takes his hand and places it on his heart. And just like before Joseph feels a lightness inside.

"You stupid motherfucker," Will thinks, realizing now he should revisit the Murder Kroger at twilight and through the woods behind the McDonald's. And so he does. And this time he sees the door. But when he turns the knob it's locked. He hears chanting on the other side of the door and the smell of incense burning. As he leaves he passes the garbage bin and a horrible smell nearly causes him to gag. Feeling compelled, he shines his phone light into the bin and sees the dismembered body of the con man inside, being devoured by ants. He wretches but before he looks away he sees the same pendant lying on some trash. He holds his breath and snatches the pendant and leaves the same way he came, through the woods. Once back at home he starts researching the symbol on the pendant. He learns from an MU research paper it is the symbol of the cult Kthadras, the One Who Waits.

Kthadras is an Outer God whose followers believe resides in the core of our planet. But the belief is much stranger than that. As their belief goes, Earth itself formed around this sleeping abomination millions of years ago as it waited for the return of something entirely unknown to us. And still it waits. The followers of Kthadras believe their role is to provide offerings of sustenance for the hibernating God. The cult congregates around places where it is believed the breath of Kthadras has escaped from the Earth's core and caused the surrounding land to decay. This ground is holy to them because it is a physical manifestation of Kthadras in the everyday world. Proof therefore.

The Fetus

You are used to the darkness by now, finding your way in the darkness, without the use of your eyes. You are walking through a forest, or a place that gives you the impression of a forest, though there are no trees, no grass, nor any leaves on the ground. No squirrels. Here is nothing you would normally associate with a forest and yet you are reminded of one. From the corner of your eyes you can see globular objects, organic perhaps, arranging themselves into familiar shapes, and yet whenever you turn they scurry out of your periphery, like cockroaches in a basement. You cannot remember when you started on the journey that brought you here, nor where you left from. You do have a vague memory, appearing like an iridescent cloud in your mind, of a time when the good things in life no longer seemed to be good and how over time the bad took its place in your heart so that eventually the memory of goodness itself was lost to you. As strange as this place is, and how disoriented you are, soon you realize there are clues that connect you back to your former self and you focus your mind intently on them, hoping to remember more. For example you know there is such a thing as a forest and that this place is not one though it seems to want you to think that it is. You also know it is a bit odd to think of a landscape as having intentions towards you, benevolent or not. Yet this is where you find yourself.

Ahead is a hillside. From up there you may be able to get your bearings and figure out where to go next.

Behind you is the shapeless forest, vanishing into an impenetrable darkness. Maybe you should go back.

