SANCTUM KTHADRAS

I. The Man Who Lives in the Room

One

At the entrance was a gray box with a white panel and a glowing red dot on top. He had observed the driver of the BMW ahead of him press a keycard to the panel, at which point the dot turned green and the gate lifted, allowing the vehicle to pass through. Now it was his turn. He put the Jeep into park and fumbled through a manila folder on the passenger seat. Eventually he found the keycard paper-clipped to his W4 form, rolled down the window, and held the card to the panel, noticing in the side mirror as he did the line of cars now backed into the  road, blocking traffic. The red dot blinked twice but did not turn green and the gate did not open for him.
He sighed. "Of course it doesn't work. Why would it?"
Now there was honking and beeping from the line. He threw up his hands and gestured in frustration towards the box. Then, just as he was about to do a U-turn out of line and phone Marcia Johnson from HR, he saw an well-dressed woman climb out of a SUV a few cars back and approach him. Around her neck she wore a retractable badge with a keycard inside and without acknowledging his presence at all she held it against the panel. Finally, the dot turned green and the gate lifted.
"Thanks for that," he said, "First day."
"Naw you good."
As he drove under the gate and entered the technology park a drizzle of rain fell onto the windshield. Last Wednesday, the day of his interview, it had been all sunshine, white clouds, and blue skies. Now in the overcast everything felt unfamiliar and strange. He wound through the curves in the road, passing large office complexes on both sides. He admired the well-manicured hedge and flower gardens out in the front of the mostly concrete and glass buildings. He followed painted wooden signs to his own building deep within this maze of buildings. After awhile they all looked the same to him.
As he got nearer his stomach turned and he felt a little sick. He reached into the console and pulled out the bottle of Pepto Bismol he had picked up at a gas station along the way, anticipating just this moment. He twisted off the cap and drank the entire bottle in a few gulps.
By the time...

"Oh. I thought they would have explained the situation to you during the interview. Maybe it's not my place to say."

"Sometimes after lunch me and Alicia would go for walks down by the pond, over yonder," the woman pointed to a path around the side of the building, her eyes lingering there as if lost in a memory, "She was a beautiful soul. So kind to me."

SUICIDE NOTE

I know it's not appropriate to speak this way in the world of business but I am very grateful to have known you all, and I will miss every one of you. Also, I am sorry for all the work I left undone. Tim, I suppose you never will get you that new svg icon put on the login page. Well, that was just a joke. I know somebody else will come along and finished the work I started. Then again, I also know that when it comes to the important things, the things that truly matter, nothing is left undone. Everything is perfect as it is, complete or incomplete, done or undone. It doesn't matter. It is all perfect. Everything is perfect. I know things like that now. I didn't know it before.

Take care, 
Alicia

The story opens as the main character, a man named Will, is arriving on his first day as a computer programmer at a large nondescript corporate office in the city. Soon thereafter he learns the person who previously held his position, a young woman named Alicia Davis, committed suicide under mysterious circumstances. On his work computer, the same one used by Alicia, he discovers an encrypted text file. After some sleuthing he is able to open the file using an encryption key that was attached to the suicide email that was cc’d to the entire company before she killed herself.

At this point the story breaks into parallel narratives, because  it turns out that the contents of the file is a journal Alicia kept her final months. At the top of the journal is a declamation:

'CURSED ARE YOU WHO READS THIS CONFESSION OF MINE. FOR YOUR OWN SAKE DO NOT LET YOUR EYES FALL UPON THE WORDS HEREAFTER. THE VOICE THAT UTTERED THEM WAS NOT MY OWN BUT SOMETHING HORRIBLE GROWING WITHIN ME. SHUT YOUR EARS! CLOSE YOUR EYES! BECAUSE GOD FORBID, IT MAY YET GROW WITHIN YOU!'

Reading the journal from the beginning, Will learns Alicia was depressed because her mother passed away from breast cancer the previous year. She lived at home alone with her mother and is almost unable to deal with the loneliness she feels in the now empty house. (Alicia was unmarried, quiet, introverted, very plain) Alicia tells a story how one day, after drinking too much before work, she told everyone in the office exactly what she thought about them in the daily meeting and was asked to leave early. Driving home she picks up a hitchhiker, who tells him his mother is in the hospital sick and needs money to pay the doctor for the surgery. So they drive to an ATM and she gets out five hundred dollars and gives it to the obvious con man. The con man asks to get out at a McDonald's in the city and Alicia follows him on foot, detective-like, such is her state of mind, she really doesn't care about anything at this point. She follows the con man into the woods behind the McDonald's and eventually they come out behind the infamous Murder Kroger (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_Kroger). By now it is twilight and difficult to see. The con man enters a small door in the back of the grocery store. She follows the man inside and finds herself in a dim and tiny room with very clean walls, and in the middle of this room is a friendly-looking man, who smiles and asks her, 'Where are you hurting, Alicia?' The man knows her name. It seems he knows everything about her. Still in that reckless frame of mind she tells the man he misses his mother terribly, and begins to cry. The man then takes Alicia's hand and places it on his heart. Suddenly she no longer feels the loneliness and the sadness. She feels light in his heart again. She returns home and has the best sleep she can remember. And only good dreams.

Will stops reading the journal and is so intrigued by the story of the mysterious man who lives in the room behind the Murder Kroger, and what he did for Alicia, he decides to find out for himself how much of this is true and how much is made-up bullshit. He visits the Murder Kroger and can find no room there, as described in Alicia's journal, even sneaking into the back area where deliveries are made. In the employee break room, however, he does see a man that vaguely fits the description of the con man. He asks him if he ever met a woman named Alicia who gave him 500 dollars. The man looks suspicious but says 'Naw man, I don't know that chick. And I'd definitely remember a bitch who give me five-hundy, know what I'm sayin?' and would say no more. Before Will leaves he notices a pendant hanging around the man's neck with an unusual symbol. He makes a mental note of it and goes home.

"What disturbed me the most about the man took me awhile to wrap my head around. It was not his calm smile, nor was it his overall friendly demeanor. Those were creepy in context, but in a cartoonish kind of way, like a scary clown, and hard to take very seriously, even vulnerable like I was in that particular environment. But for nights afterwards I stayed awake in bed and replayed our meeting in my mind and tried to understand what it was about him that troubled me so much. And then suddenly it came to me. It was not the fact there was a man in a room behind a door in the back of the Murder Kroger on Ponce de Leon. What kept me awake those nights was that on a subconscious level I understood that the man 'lived' in that room. And that was the detail that made all the difference to me. That room was his home and yet there was absolutely nothing homelike about it. There was no bed or windows or TV or refrigerator or toilet or anything a human being might want or need for comfort. And yet he lived there. And he never left. Don't ask me how I knew that, but I did."

Returning to the journal he learns that Alicia enjoyed a few more days of happiness before she realized that when the man who took away the sadness of her mother's death it left a void. And over the course of more several days it became obvious the void wanted to be filled, needed to be filled, like a compulsion, or more properly a hunger. The quickest and easiest way to fill it seemed to be debauchery, so she goes out to bars and gets drunk, finds the easiest drugs she can get ahold of and takes them all. She gorges herself at a Golden Corral until she vomits on a family of Mexicans. All in the same night. When she wakes up in the morning she feels horrible, not just from being hungover, but from the things she did to herself. She has an idea that she should revisit the man who lives in the room, that maybe she can remove this feeling too. So she visits the Murder Kroger and goes around back and cannot find the door. It is just not there. As she sits in his car in the parking lot he reflects on the door and the man who lives in the room behind the door. It doesn't seem to follow the rules of this world, the rule of three dimensions that is. Maybe she thinks, the location is not the only thing I need in order to find it again, but also the time of day and the path I took to get there. Maybe those are important too. So that evening she returns to the McDonald's around twilight and follows the same general path she took through the woods to emerge just behind the Murder Kroger. And sure enough the door is there. She enters the room and the man who lives inside is there, smiling at her. "Where are you hurting, Alicia?" he asks. Alicia tells him about the feeling of the void and how she tried to make it go away with a night of debauchery. The man again takes her hand and places it on his heart. And just like before Alicia feels the lightness within.

"You stupid bitch," Will says aloud, realizing now he should revisit the Murder Kroger at twilight and through the woods behind the McDonald's. And so he does. And this time he sees the door. But when he turns the knob it's locked. He hears chanting on the other side of the door and the smell of incense burning. As he leaves he passes the garbage bin and a horrible smell nearly causes him to gag. Feeling compelled, he shines his phone light into the bin and sees the dismembered body of the con man inside, being devoured by ants. He wretches and before he looks away he sees the same pendant lying on some trash. He holds his breath and snatches the pendant and leaves the same way he came in, through the woods. Once back at home he starts researching the symbol on the pendant. He learns from an MU research paper it is the symbol of the cult Kthadras, the One Who Waits.

Kthadras is an outer God whose followers believe resides in the core of the planet Earth. But the belief is even stranger than that. As their legends teach it, Earth itself formed around the sleeping form of the abomination billions of years ago, as it waited for the return of something entirely unknown to us. And still it waits. The followers of Kthadras believe their role is to provide offerings of sustenance to the hibernating God. The cult congregates around places where it is believed the breath of Kthadras has escaped from the Earth's core and causes the surrounding land to decay. This ground is holy to them because it is a physical manifestation of Kthadras in the everyday world.

Back to the journal, Alicia reveals that the void left after this second visit to the man who lives in the room was much larger. She began to have unclean urges and desires. She picks up several men on dating apps and lets them have their way with her. But that is not enough. She does harder and more dangerous drugs. She sells her body on the street. All the awful degradation and humiliation is not enough to fill the emptiness she is now feeling. She is overwhelmed with feelings of hopelessness and despair. And the next day at twilight she once again makes the journey through the woods behind the McDonald's to the back of the Murder Kroger. The man is there to greet her, but he looks different this time. His skin is paler, his hair thinner. The walls of the room have mildew growing in the corners. The floor is spotted with some kind of organic growth. He greets her with the same smile and asks, 'Where are you hurting, Alicia?'

Will continues to investigate the pendant, learning all he can about the Cult of Kthadras. He discovers the pendant can be used to gain entrance into the place of worship. He learns that using the pendant he will be able to enter the Sanctum through the door in the back of the Murder Kroger, because "the door is actually a portal that leads to many places, the number of which more numerous than one could count in a lifetime."

Before he leaves he reads the final journal entry from Alicia. She describes a feeling of utter emptiness and total despair, along with a loneliness greater than she has ever felt before. The urges inside her make her afraid but she is powerless to stop them. She has random sex with a stranger in a Motel 6 and then when he is sleeping she chokes him with his belt. The feeling of murder alleviates her pain somewhat so she begins to craves more of it. She wanders into the parking lot of the hotel and finds a pregnant Mexican woman and does something to the woman and her unborn baby that more horrible than words can describe. Escaping the scene of the crime with blood running from her mouth and arms she returns one last time to the man who lives in the room. She wants to die. By now the organic material on the floor has grown to consume the man, who now appears to be some kind of bruised, organic tissue with tentacles for a face, whose body is planted to the floor of the room. The walls of the place are covered in the same pulsating material. His tentacles whip towards her and she can make out indistinct words from the hisses, 'Where are you hurting, Alicia?' But instead she pulls out a gun and kills the man-tentacle-plant. She returns home, writes this final journal entry, which ends with the words, 

"Mama, forgive me."

Will destroys the work laptop containing the journal. He dons the robes of the Cult of Kthadras, puts on the pendant, and makes his way through the woods behind the McDonald's to the back of the Murder Kroger. Using the pendant he finds the door to be unlocked. He enters and finds himself in a long candlelit corridor, which he realizes is lined with worshippers overlooking him from a floor above. They are chanting in low voices, their faces obscured under hoods. He walks through the corridor and comes to an open room with three doors. He approaches the doors one by one and opens them. Through the first he sees the creation of the world, of the hibernating God Kthadras in the vastness of space, a time before the Earth was born, and instantly his hair becomes like snow. He opens the second and sees the back alley of the Murder Kroger, empty, a soft wind blowing through it. He closes the door and reaches to open the third, but a voice stops him.

"No one may open the third door. It is forbidden."

Will turns and sees a man or rather a dark hooded robe with the voice of a man. He tells him he has been accepted.

"He has revealed himself to you. That is a great honor. Many have not made it as far as you have. Many from the past have been in your role: Siddhartha, Zoroaster, Moses, Jesus of Nazareth, all servants of the One Who Waits."

"What is my role? I don't understand what you mean."

"Our Lord sleeps but must be fed. Everything will become known in time. Here I must say goodbye to you. Trust in Him, he will show you the way forward."

"I am not a part of this. This is bullshit. I want to go home. Let me out of here."

But the three doors were locked now. He turned and the corridor was gone. The worshippers were nowhere to be seen. He sat in the room and tried to figure a way out. Soon he heard one of the doorknobs turn. A woman entered, alone and somewhat afraid. At last he understood and accepted his role. He rose and faced her, smiling.

"Where are your hurting, Alicia?"




The Fetus

You are used to the darkness by now, finding your way in the darkness, without the use of your eyes. You are walking through a forest, or a place that gives you the impression of a forest, though there are no trees, no grass, nor any leaves on the ground. No squirrels. Here is nothing you would normally associate with a forest and yet you are reminded of one. From the corner of your eyes you can see globular objects, organic perhaps, arranging themselves into familiar shapes, and yet whenever you turn they scurry out of your periphery, like cockroaches in a basement. You cannot remember when you started on the journey that brought you here, nor where you left from. You do have a vague memory, appearing like an iridescent cloud in your mind, of a time when the good things in life no longer seemed to be good and how over time the bad took its place in your heart so that eventually the memory of goodness itself was lost to you. As strange as this place is, and how disoriented you are, soon you realize there are clues that connect you back to your former self and you focus your mind intently on them, hoping to remember more. For example you know there is such a thing as a forest and that this place is not one though it seems to want you to think that it is. You also know it is a bit odd to think of a landscape as having intentions towards you, benevolent or not. Yet this is where you find yourself.

Ahead is a hillside. From up there you may be able to get your bearings and figure out where to go next.

Behind you is the shapeless forest, vanishing into an impenetrable darkness. Maybe you should go back.

