About 100 yards from the townhouse we were received by a body of between three and four hundred Indians, ten or twelve of which were entirely naked, except a piece of cloth about their middle, and painted all over in a hideous manner, six of them with eagles tails in their hands, which they shook and flourished as they advanced, danced in a very uncommon figure, singing in concert with some drums of their own make and with several other instruments, uncouth beyond description. Cheulah, the headman of the town, led the procession, painted blood-red, except his face, which was half black, holding an old rusty broad-sword in his right hand, and an eagle's tail in his left. As they approached, Cheulah, singling himself out from the rest, cut two or three capers, as a single to the other eagle-tails, who instantly followed his example. This violent exercise, accompanies by the band of musick, and a loud yell from the mob, lasted about a minute, when the headman, waving his sword over my head, struck it into the ground, about two inches from my left foot. Then directing himself to me, made a short discourse (which my interpreter told me was only to bid me a hearty welcome) and presented me with a string of beads. We then proceeded to the door, where Cheulah and one of the beloved men, taking me by each arm, led me in, and seated me in one of the first seats. It was so dark that nothing was perceptible till a fresh supply of canes were brought, which being burnt in the middle of the house answers both purposes of fuel and candle. I then discovered about five hundred faces, and Cheulah addressing me a second time, made a speech much to the same effet as the former, congratulating me on my safe arrival thro the numerous parties of northern Indians that genrally haunt the way I came. He then made some professions of friendship, concluding with giving me another string of beads, as a token of it. He had scarcely finished, when four of those who had exhibited at the procession made their second appearance, painted in milk-white, their eagle tails in one hand, and small gourds with beads in them in the other, which they rattled in time to the music. During this time the peace pipe was prepared.