When they were not busy in the village, Indian women were out in the woods, meadows, or deserts, their baskets on their backs and their digging sticks or fruit pickers in their hands. If they were detained in the village, they sent their children out on the all-important food-quest, praising or scolding them as they came back laden or empty-handed.

Baskets of mulberries, which ripen in the early summer.

The number of wild foods available to the Indian are too numerous to mention. It would include sundry roots and tubers, wild rice, currants, raspberries, strawberries, wild plums, elder and sumac berries, sunflower seeds, a wide range of seed pods, the yucca, the agave, and all the multifarious forms of cactus. In California, the Great Basin and the Plateau regions, there was a keen taste for lizards, snakes, crickets, cicadas, locusts and certain juicy varieties of ant and catepillar. Particularly sought after was wild honey, the only sweetner which primitive people knew. Climbing the trees to smoke out bees and take the dripping combs involved courage and many painful stings. Maple syrup and sugar were also finally introduced.

The Indian enjoyed a varied and balanced diet, composed of meat, fruit, and vegetables. Except in times of dearth, he did not lack for fat, protein, or carbohydrate, all of which he needed to pursue his arduous existence. Nor did he have to eat his meals in the raw. Indian women were excellent cooks. Travellers' accounts speak of well-served meals, consisting of several courses, soup, meat, and pudding.

The simplest method of cooking was in a stone-lined firepit, excavated in the ground, or by suspending the food over a fire. Another common method was to use large vessels of clay, wood, stone, or basketry, so tightly meshed as to be watertight, into which red-hot stones were dropped to heat the water and to cook the contents. For table-ware, they used all manner of bowls, basins, and drinking vessels, scooping up the food with pottery ladles or spoons of deer or buffalo horn.