When stepping inside an Indian dwelling we would have found little or no furniture. The floor of beaten earth, worn flat to the consistency of glass or parquet, and scrupulously swept with a besom of grass or twigs, would either have been left bare or partially covered with furs, rugs, or skins. Hangings and fetishes adorned the walls. The family would sleep around the wall of the house or tent, each member in his own appointed place, sometimes on a raised bench but more often directly on the ground, wrapped in a warm robe. A common article of furniture was a back-rest, which would support a man as he sat on the ground, rather like a modern deckchair without the seat. Certain parts of the dwelling were allotted to religious images and to the sacred medicine bundle, and there were mysterious spots, marked with stones, which everyone avoided stepping on or passing in front of, and which were dedicated to the shades of the ancestors.

The center of the dwelling was the hearth, on which a bright fire burned by day and was dampened down at night. Fire, a gift of the gods, had a sacred significance, and was sedulously cherished. It symbolized the sun, as the home around it symbolized the surrounding universe, with the door or tent-flap positioned towards the east to catch the first rays of daylight. The techniques of making fire were very ancient. In prehistoric times, the art of producing sparks by striking one flint with another, or with a piece of iron pyrite, was already known; but a commoner method was to twirl a pointed stick in a notch in another stick until sufficient head was generated to ignite a handful of dried grass and tindery bark. Another even more rapid way to was to rotate the fire-stick by means of a bow, twisting the bowstring around the middle of the stick and working it back and forth.

Sometimes fire was carried from one site to another in a buffalo horn, or in an enclosed pot, or inside a mass of slow-smouldering moss. Many tribes worshipped fire; they kept an eternal flame burning in their houses and temples, and on occasion appointed a regular Keeper of the Flame to watch over it.

http://www.cherokeebyblood.com/Cherokee_by_blood/Housing.html