Medicine men were seldom envied as theirs was a hard lot. Indeed, in many tribes the apprenticeship and subsequent career of a shaman were so rigorous that young men had to be forced into the life. Sweat-baths, purging, fasting, gashing the body with knives and stones, perforating the tongue and penis with pine-needles and cactus thorns - these were not practices to be lightly undertaken. Moreover, the shaman was often forbidden to marry, and lived alone, feared, mistrusted, isolated from his fellows. Nevertheless, his position in the tribe was important, and he was often considered second only to the chief himself.

The equipment of the medicine man consisted primarily of his spells and formulas. These were his personal possessions, inherited from his predecessors, or bestowed on him by his guardian spirit. He had charms, ointments, prayer sticks, and magical stones. He had gourds and rattles, drums, pills and potions, medicine spears, masks and feather fans. He had pipes and tubes for blowing tobacco or spraying unguents on the patiens, or for sucking the sickness out of him. He was often a gifted artist, and could execute the curative sand-paintings. Above all, he had his own special medicine chest, in teh form of his medicine bundle. It was an heirloom, or a present from the medicine man who had been his tutor. They carried it around like a handbag.

These were the contents of a Winnebago medicine bundle: three paws of a black bear, used as bags and containing herbs, a bone tube, stuffed with feathers wrapped in the skin of an eagle's head, which in turn was enclosed in a pouch made from otter skin, two cane whistles, a paint bag, in the form of a tiny embroidered moccasin with legging attached, containing herbs, and closed by a bunch of buffalo hair, four snake skins, a white weasel skin, containing herbs, two snake vertebrae, a bone whistle, a cormorant head, a woodpecker head, two wooden dolls tied together, a dried eagle claw, clasping a packet of herbs and a dyed feather, an animal's eye, a horse chestnut and a tooth inside a woven sack, a small wooden bown and spoon.

