They have near their state house a square piece of ground well cleaned, and fine sand is carefully strewed over it, when requisite, to promote a swifter motion to what they throw along the surface. Only one, or two on a side, play at this ancient game. They have a stone about two fingers broad at the edge and two spans round. Each party has a pole of about eight feet long, smooth, tapering at each end, the points flat. They set off abreast of each other at six yards from the end of the play ground. Then one of them hurls the stone on its edge, in as direct a line as he can, a considerable distance towards the middle of the other end of the square. When they have ran a few yards each darts his pole, anointed with bear's oil, with a proper force, as near as he can guess in proportion to the motion of the stone, that the end may lie close to the stone. When this is the case, the person counts two of the game, and in proportion to the nearness of the poles to the mark, one is counted, unless by measuring both are found to be at an equal distance from the stone. In this manner the players will keep running most part of the day at half speed, under the violent heat of the sun, staking their silver ornaments, their nose, finger, and ear rings, their breast, arm, and wrist plates, and even all their wearing apparel except tha which barely covers their middle. All the American Indians are much addicted to this game.

The hurling stones they use at present were time immemorial rubbed smooth on the rocks, and with prodigious labor. They are kept with the strictest religious care from one generation to another, and are exempted from being buried from the dead. They belong to the town where they are used.