 
Prologue

  Tailgate down, I fished out a ratty old blanket and tossed it to my son, who took off in a sprint towards the field.
  "Joseph!", his mother hollered from inside the cab, "Don't be draggin my picnic quilt through the dirt, kiddo!"
	Two scrawny arms managed to lift the blanket off the ground, barely, until he reached the grass edge. 
	Suzanne got out and lit a cigarette as she came around to the back of the truck.
	"Baby, hand me that basket of food and the sweet tea." 
	I did so.
	"And them Solo cups too, behind the toolbox there."
	As I bent over to reach the cups I felt a sharp pinch in my nether regions and jumped.
	"Watch it woman." 
	I handed her the sleeve and she gave me this shit-eating grin and trotted off across the parking area, working those jean shorts like she knew how to, tossing me a sly glance over her shoulder, "Bring the ice when you come, baby please."
	On the way over we had stopped at the Dollar General for plates and utensils and Joseph spotted a kite in a little kiosk next to the register. He begged me to buy one for him and picked out this rainbow-colored number, shaped like a butterfly. Now I unfurled the contents of the kite package onto the bed of the truck. Then from memory I attempted to slot the right pole into the right hole, but it had been years since I had put together machinery this complex, apparently, and failed. Eventually I read the instructions and a few minutes after that was headed towards the field, kite in hand, where Suzanne was laying out the picnic - a cornucopia of rotisserie chicken, buttered corn on the cob, potato salad, dill pickles, white bread for sandwiches, and for dessert fried strawberry pies from a local farm.
	Joseph tore through the grass to meet me, his face contorted like a madman, grabbing at the kite once he got close enough.
	"Now hold up a second, hoss. Let me show you how to do it first. They's a skill to flying a kite. If you don't hold it right, a boy your size, its liable to carry you plum over that mountain yonder."
	A savvy shake of the head, a snaggletooth grin.
	"Will baby," Suzanne shouted, "did you bring the ice like I asked you to?"
	"Well, shit no."
	"I asked you to bring it."
	"I know you did."
	"Then why didn't you, grandpa?"
	"Get off my back, grandma."
	A few minutes later I returned with the ice and found Joseph crawling on all fours through the tall grass, barking like a dog. Normally the field had been cut by this time in April but they must have let it slip this year. The caterpillar-green blades went up to my knees and even higher in some places. Mild gusts of wind blew gentle waves over the field, all the way to the highway, where traffic was heavy for a Saturday, no doubt on their way to the spring airshow at Russell Field a couple miles down the road.
	I felt a tugging and looked down and saw Joseph Dog at my ankles, gnawing on my pants leg. When he saw me looking he raised up on his hind legs, tongue wagging, front paws begging.
	"Hey little doggy, you ready to fly this kite or what?"
	Excited nodding, rising to his feet.
	We walked to a clearing in the center of the field and I showed Joseph how to measure the direction of the wind by wetting my thumb and holding it up.
	"Now once you know which direction the wind is blowing, you want to turn your back to it, and hold up the kite so the sails catch the wind. Make sense?"
	A nod.
	I lifted the kite to show him what I meant and instantly the kite went taut, edges ruffling. Joseph hopped behind me, eyes wide, surprised at the force of the wind. I chuckled.
	"Oh yeah, that's what you want to see. Boy I tell you what!"
	Joseph emerged from behind me, fascinated.
	"From here on out, you gotta make sure you hold onto the spool, like this."
	I grasped the plastic spool handle and unwound five loops and let them hang in my free hand.
	"You want just enough line loose so that the kite has enough slack to get into the air and then stay there by itself. But not any more than that. Not yet."
	With that explanation I heaved the kite into the air and immediately it caught an updraft and flew backwards with strength. I let out the slack and held the spool with both hands. The line went sharp.
	Rainbow butterfly against the blue sky, bobbing, fluttering.
	At last I figured it was steady enough to hand off to Joseph so I motioned for him to come over. He looked nervous but took the spool with both hands.
	"Hold on tight."
	"I will."
	A look of deep concentration on his face. Joy.
	"This is incredible!"
	Minutes passed. Flying by himself, figuring out how to walk backwards in order to keep the line taut, how to take up slack on the spool.
	"What do you say we let it go even higher?" I asked him.
	"Yeah!"
	I showed him how to unwind the spool one loop at a time while keeping the kite afloat. Joseph studied my hand movements intently. I unspooled about ten loops, eyes on the kite. It went higher, a small triangle of color amidst the blue. The force of the wind tugged on the spool. I made sure the line wouldn't dig into his hand.
	"Its almost in outer space!"
	He laughed.
	"Sure is."
	We flew for a quarter of an hour, eventually so far from the picnic blanket we had to look for it. I showed him how to wind the line back onto the spool when the wind died down. Once, the kite dove sharply into a free fall. I tried to save it by pulling back and  winding the line but it was no use. The rainbow butterfly crashed nose first into the grass. Joseph ran over and held up the broken pieces.
	"No worries," I assured him, "We'll get her patched up and good as new again."
	About that time Suzanne called out from the picnic blanket, her voice echoing off the woods edge.
	"Ding, ding, ding boys! Come and get it!"
	I collected the remains of the kite and tousled his hair, telling him not to look so glum. We returned together and Joseph interrupted his mother's attempt to hand him a plate several times to tell her all about how to fly a kite. Finally he finished and she handed him his plate and a cup of sweet iced tea. He downed the sweet tea in an instant, brushed the sweaty hair from his eyes, and pushed the cup towards his mother for more.
	"You can have more tea, but you need to eat something too. Eat some of that chicken sandwich I made you."
	He lifted the bread suspiciously.
	"There's no mayonnaise on it. I promise."
	I took a bite of my own sandwich.
	"Hell it don't need mayo," I observed, "This here bird's nice and juicy."
	We ate together, not speaking, basking in the rays of the early afternoon sunshine. Joseph broke the silence at last.
	"Daddy, can I have your pickle?"
	"Eat your own pickle," I said.
	"I already ate mine."
	"You already ate yours?"
	"Yeah."
	"Let me see."
	He showed me his plate. Chicken sandwich. Potato salad. No pickle.
	"Boy you gonna turn into a pickle one of these days."
	Laughter.
	"No I aint daddy!"
	"Alright. Go on then."
	I held out my plate to him. He snatched the pickle and shoved it into his mouth. Suzanne and I exchanged looks.
"Oh no, Suzanne," I said, wide-eyed, clapping both hands against my cheeks, "Look at him! Oh my God he's turnin green. He's turnin into a pickle!"
	"Oh no!"
	A frown. Looking himself over. Then a smile.
	"I aint a pickle!"
	"Oh yes you are. And now I get to eat you!"
	I grabbed him under the legs and swung him up and pretended to munch on him. Then I lifted his shirt and blew fart noises on his belly and he giggled uncontrollably while trying to wiggle free. Suzanne and me both caught his laughter and that went on until finally I set him down and collapsed against my wife, who lay propped up on one arm. Joseph crawled next to me and lay against my fat belly. And we caught our breath.
	For some time after there was only the sound of the wind blowing over the grass and through the high branches of the pine trees. The chirping of birdsong overhead. Hikers emerged from the trailhead near the parking area and we heard their distant chatter and then the hum of an engine starting and then a car pulling onto the road. Against her bosom I felt her heartbeat, steady, slow. Her free hand feathered my hair as if it were some kind of meditation. She pulled the loose strands behind my ears and smoothed it down and then reached up again, in one continuous motion.
	"I need a haircut."
	"Your hair is perfect."
	"That ain't true. I got a bald spot."
	"Your bald spot is perfect."
	I leaned up and kissed her neck. She kissed my forehead. When we opened our eyes Joseph was watching us. He said nothing and then scooted to the edge of the blanket where he began yanking grass blades out of the ground into piles with that intensity of play that only a child can have, then braiding them in some fashion around a twig as if it was his own quiet work. Some time later he spoke to me, just as I was drifting off.
	"Daddy?"
	"Yeah?"
	"Remember when we were flying the kite?"
	"Yeah."
	"No. Remember when we were flying the kite and I said it was almost in outer space?"
	"I do."
	"Can that happen for real?"
	"A kite in outer space?"
	"Yeah."
	"Well sure. I don't see why not."
	Joseph lay back on the blanket and looked up and I knew he was imagining our kite floating into outer space. I admired him while he admired the sky, his face in that moment a beautiful combination of masculine and feminine features. Like an angel in a gothic cathedral, carved from marble. Just like that. Angel of mine, I thought, and my heart swelled with an overwhelming tenderness towards my son until I thought I might cry. Somewhere in the back of his mind a voice sniggered at me, a younger, more immature version of myself. But I didn’t give a damn. Fuck that guy. Then my eyes followed Joseph's upward, beyond our picnic blanket, beyond the field and the surrounding forest. Beyond Lavender Mountain. Beyond the gusting wind and the moving clouds. Up our kite flew. Up into that part of the atmosphere where the air turns thin and cold. The stratosphere. And beyond the stratosphere. Beyond where birds can fly. Where only manmade ships can fly. And then beyond that. Stars visible here. And the planets of our solar system. Our cheap dollar store kite, a rainbow butterfly made of plastic, floating beyond the boundary of the Earth against the backdrop of planets and stars and the darkness of the universe.
	"Daddy?"
	"Yeah?"
	"Where does the kite go then?"
	"What you mean?"
	"After outer space."
	"There ain't no after outer space."
	"I don't understand that."
	"Outer space goes on forever."
	"Forever."
	"Thats right."
	"How far is that?"
	"Very."
	"Can people go there?"
	"No."
	"Then how do we know how far it is?"
	"We have machines that tell us."
	"And the machines can go there?"
	"No."
	"Oh. Then how do the machines know?"
	"Shit. I don't know Joseph. Ask your mama."
	But she was asleep. And then so was I. Or I must have been because the next thing I remember was sensing the sunlight fade behind my eyelids and opening them to see a billowy cloud moving across the afternoon sky, obscuring the sun, and all the colors of everything turned muted like they do during an eclipse. The temperature seemed to drop a couple degrees and my wife stirred and wrapped her arm around my gut and pulled me closer.
	"Baby," I whispered.
	"What?"
  "Them titties sure do make good pillows."
  "Thanks honey. That's sweet of you to say."
	Then Joseph was hovering over me, the light around his silhouette.
  "Daddy."
  "Yeah boy."
  "I gotta pee."
  "Well, go pee then."
  "Where should I go?"
  "By them trees, by the woods. Just walk over there and unzip, just make sure nobody sees your pecker."
  "Will."
  "What?"
  "Don't teach our son to say pecker."
	"Why not?"
	"Its uncouth."
	"I'll show you uncouth."
	I turned to face Suzanne and kissed her neck and behind her ears and placed my hand between her thighs and felt the warmth of her body heat. We kissed. Slow and long and hard. Our tongues entwined. I reached my hand up her shirt and rubbed her smooth skin, cupped her naked breasts. But we didn't allow our lust to go too far and after awhile of that lay quietly on the blanket together, breathing deeply, in time.
	"Baby," she said, "we need a house."
	I knew that was coming. Our apartment was too small. Much too small to raise a family in. One bedroom, one bath. No yard. We had talked about having another baby, hopefully a baby girl this time, but it seemed impossible the way things were.
  "After we see what happens with these layoffs at the mill and I know I still got a job. It'll have to wait till then. You know that."
	She turned away from me.
	"I know."
	I thought about touching her back but hesitated. It was the truth and she had heard it plenty of times before. I hated to bring it up again. Six months ago Marglen got bought out by a Japanese conglomerate, fired all the management, and reorganized the entire operation. One of my good buddies Bill Henley, who had been with the company for twenty one years, got let go. Now there were talks of more layoffs and shutting down operations for the whole month of June.
	"I know you get tired of hearing all my excuses. I love you."
	Her head angled towards me.
	"I love you too."
	"You're a wonderful woman. You know that?"
	"Yes."
	I wrapped my arms around her waist and inched closer, pressing into her, rubbing my hand up and down the curve of her waist.
	"How about after we leave here we ride up Big Texas Valley and take a look at some of them properties for sale?"
	"Okay. I'd like that."
	"Man I hope that one property is still for sale, the one with twenty acres and the woods with the creek running through it."
	"I know the one you like. The house on that property is too small, baby."
	"But if we buy, we can expand the house. Think of all that land. It will be a great place for a boy to grow up."
	"Who's going to maintain that land, cut all that grass?"
	"We'll get cows."
	She laughed.
	"What do you know about cows?"
	"I'll get a tractor, like Mister Gambel does."
	A quiet moment. Then she spoke softly, almost to herself.
	"It would be nice. We could have a big bonfire area, sit around it at night. Invite people over."
	"Now you're talking."
	We lay together and did not speak. I listened to the grass rustling in the wind and the buzzing of insects nearby. I nestled my face against her shoulder blades and kissed her back. She took one of my hands into hers and squeezed. I knew without saying anything that she was on the property now, we were both there, together, exploring the acreage, walking through the house, imagining what a future there would be like. Imagining our kids playing in the yard, having cookouts on the weekend. Hiding Easter eggs. Building a treehouse. Teaching my son how to drive. Soon we were both asleep again or we must have been because I don't remember anything else after not even what I was dreaming about.
	A distant scream. Joseph. Far from us.
	Before awake fully I scrambled through the tall grass towards the woodline, hands cupped to my mouth.
	"Where are you? Shout so I can find you!"
	Behind me I heard Suzanne call out too.
	Another shout. Then crying, panicked and afraid. It hurt me deep inside to hear him like that. I reached the edge of the woods where the brush was thick and overgrown. Without a thought I dove into a dense opening where kudzu blanketed the ground and shouted to my wife to stay in the clearing in case he wandered out. She stopped where I had entered with her arms crossed, a fearful look on her face.
	It was impossible to hear anything over the stomping of my boots, so I stopped where I was, heartbeat pounding in my ears. His cries came again from the East and I took off in that direction. 
	The muted sunlight dimmed the further into the woods I went. It got darker, harder to tell where I was going, my vision a blur of branches and leaves and small trees in my path. Another cry. I wanted so much to take away the fear that he was feeling. As I ran I called out to him.
	"Joseph! Stay where you are. I'm coming for you. It's going to be okay. You hear me?"
	No response. Only crying. Louder now but still far from me. Then I cursed myself and begged the Lord God Almighty for him to be alright. Fearsome images of rattlers, cougars, bears went through my mind. Attacks I had heard about or read about, all through my life, rose up in my imagination. Victims poisoned to death by snakebite or bled out from the ragged wounds of a beast attack, like roadkill on the side of the road, an unrecognizable mass of flesh and bone that had once been someone you loved. 
	Soon I reached the ruins of an old stone bridge, collapsed on the far side. The stones of the bridge were very old, rain-eroded and covered in lichen. The bridge broached a creek bed that fed into a lake that no longer existed. Here the trees thinned exposing a flat, cracked mud bowl with dead reeds and fallen tree trunks filling the empty basin. But this was not where Joseph was.
	More crying. I knew he must be up the creek bed somewhere and lucky for me it was easier to make my way through its winding and mostly open pathway than it was through the trees. There were low-hanging branches draped with moss. I stumbled through an enormous spider web without even realizing it, pulling the web out of my mouth and hair. But I could hear Joseph better than ever so I knew I must be close. And then I saw him. There was a steep drop-off to my left and down at the bottom was my son. He was caught in a tangle of briars and brush. My heart burst out of my chest when I saw him and I cried out.
	"Joseph!" 
	He looked up the slope and saw me.
	"Daddy!"
	Then I shuffled down the hillside, careful not to stumble into the bushes myself, and moved as close to him as I could.
	"Don't move boy. Stay still so them thorns don't cut you anymore. You hear me?"
	He nodded and I gave him a reassuring smile.
	From my pocket I pulled out a pocket knife and began cutting a path towards him. His face was streaked with mud from dirt and his tears and his hair was full of leaves and small twigs. There were scratches up and down his arms, some running with blood. His eyes were reddened and he looked at me without blinking, still scared. I felt like the scum of the Earth.
	At last I was able to reach him and put both my arms under him and lifted him out. He fell against me, his little body shaking in my arms. I held him close. For many minutes we said nothing, only held onto one another. Soon I called out to Suzanne that he was safe and sound and carried him out of the woods and she tended his wounds with a first aid kit. Afterwards, when the sun was going down over the field and the colors were fading into muted shades of blue and gray, we sat in the bed of my pickup and counted lightning bugs as they flickered above the tall grass and ate fried strawberry pies until we all were fairly stuffed.
	