1

  Behind the abandoned strip mall where the Krogers used to be, where he liked to meet up with folks this side of town, he waited in the dark, in his pickup, alone. A freezing rain battered the rooftop and intermittently the wipers brushed away accumulation from the windshield with a rhythmic _ca-chunk_, _ca-chunk_. Gusts of wind whipped the CB antenna against the truckbed, moaning like some ghoul out of a B horror movie. He turned the heater knob to full blast and articulated his fingers under a vent to warm them. The only light was emitted from the dashboard gauges and cast a dim, green pall over his tired face. He fumbled in the seat next to him for the cell phone and checked it one more time for new messages. Nothing. Then he palmed the gun in his left jacket pocket, liking the feeling of safety it gave him and then stared absently into the alley, past the line of trees at the end, behind which he knew was an unused railroad track and beyond that a trailer park where Mexicans families lived. Then out of nowhere a thought crossed his unfocused mind. Lou Reed was full of shit. There aint no _Waiting for the Man_. Not no more. These days you had to get there first, before the customer. Scope things out, check around the corners, peer behind the trash cans, crawl inside the fucking drainage ditches if you had to. Look everywhere for signs of danger. That is, if you expected to live a long and happy life. Be paranoid. That was the rule. Be like a fiend yourself.
  Fifteen minutes later, just as he was about to nod off, beams from a car's headlights emerged from around the bend and spread up the side of the building, cutting through the downpour and across a toppled baby stroller and some busted palettes in the alley. He jerked upright and after a few moments recognized the pattern of the lights to be those of that old muscle car Grady drove. That old Dodge. He flashed his beams twice to indicate where he was and the car braked momentarily then slowly continued to the corner where his pickup was parked.
  The Dodge switched off its headlights when it got close but not before light flooded his cabin and momentarily blinded him. He shielded both eyes with his right arm then after his eyes readjusted to the dark he saw movement inside the car, now parked beside him. Suddenly the doors of the Dodge flung open, two figures emerged and a few moments after that the passenger door of his pickup opened and the two figures slid inside, bringing with them a cold blast of wind and wet.
  Jenn was the first inside and scooted so close to him her knee pressed into his own. Despite the bad weather all she wore was a pair of jean shorts over ripped, black leggings and a fake leather jacket over a neon halter top, exposing the loose paunch of her midriff. She was thin. As thin as he had ever seen her, despite the paunch. Her hair was stringy and unkempt, tied in a loose and now soaking bun. Her pink fingernails were bitten to the quick. Dark circles under her eyes told him she had not slept for many days. Her face and arms were pockmarked with sores and her skin was an attractive hue of cigarette ash. And those teeth and puckered mouth. Jesus Christ. He remembered a time not too long ago when she had been a head-turner. Damn sexy truth be told. Back then her hands didn't tremble like they did now. Back then there was still something alive behind those joyless, stony eyes.
  "Shut the goddamn door you pokey bastard," she said, her voice like gravel, a smokers voice, barely anything feminine left at all.
  Grady slammed the door and ran both hands through his wet graying hair. His whole body shivered and he bellowed.
  "Sonofabitch its colder than a witches titty out there. Goddamn!"
  He had known Grady for years, had worked with him at Marglen until they shut the doors two years ago. He was a good guy, kind of an old hippie, real cool and laid back, until he hooked up with Jenn and they had some babies, that is. She was his downfall the way it seemed to him. It was her that got him to use for the first time. And that was all she wrote, as they say. But they were reliable customers. And those were hard to come by these days. That fact alone was what had got his ass out of bed at one a.m., in this weather, to make a sale.
  She twisted on the bench seat in his direction, beaming at him as if she were the host of an infomercial.
  "Will baby, how you been darlin?"
  He nodded. Said nothing.
  Grady gave a small wave from the passenger seat.
  "Hey dude, thanks for meeting us last minute in this shit. We appreciate it greatly."
  "Damn hero is what you are," she said, "And dude, let me just say, what you gave us before Christmas was straight. We was trippin balls for like seven days no lie."
  In the quiet that followed it was clear that despite their friendly demeanor, both of them were uneasy to be in the truck with. Fearful, and very much so. He saw that in their eyes that never lingered for too long on his own. In the worried, clandestine glances they exchanged with each other when they thought he wasn't looking. He wondered where it had come from. Because what had he done to deserve it really? Nothing he could think of. But maybe because he was now dealing for Rodriguez in Kennesaw, that gave him an aura of danger he had not earned. It isolated them from him in a way that was nearly physical, even from Grady with whom he had once been friends. And a part of him regretted that sad as it is to say. But he was glad too because it protected him from any erratic behavior on their part. He wondered if they knew what he carried in his left jacket pocket. They probably did.
  He pulled out a plastic baggie in the shape of a ball and set it on the dash in front of them, the white shards packed tightly within, and for a moment they all looked at it without saying anything at all. Jenn spoke first.
  "Well there it is."
  Yet more silence. Then she spoke again.
  "But here's the thing, Will. We thought we oughta let you know this here will be our last score. That's right. Me and Grady are goin straight edge. For good this time. No more. We agreed as a couple."
  He said nothing but looked from one to the other. They nodded as if to assure him they were serious.
  "Tell you what else," she said, "That shit right there. That shit will kill you. Deadern hell. Bet your ass. It robs you of your life. It robs you of your kids. Everthing. It don't care one iota. You oughta be ashamed to sell this poison to folks. It’s devilish. It’s ungodly."
  "Why don't you shut the hell up Jenn," Grady said, eyes widened, bewildered, "Man don't need a lecture."
  She cackled.
  "Well I'm sorry, but you know me. I aint got no filters. I just tell it like it is."
  He said nothing at first and then nodded towards the baggie on the dashboard and said, "Three hundred."
  The couple grew quiet and looked at each other. Jenn gestured to Grady about something, mouthing words to him. Grady shook his head but then reached down to a small backpack on the floorboard. Will had not seen the backpack when they entered and immediately pulled the gun out and aimed it squarely at Grady's face. "Whoa whoa whoa, whatcha doin there, hoss?"
  Grady froze, eyes fixed on the barrel of the gun, palms out to show him he had nothing in hand.
  "Will its cool, man. It's a notebook. That's all."
  His brow furrowed. Quiet in the cabin. Outside the storm was blowing as fiercely as ever. He eyed Grady and Jenn in turn, trying to understand what he was being told.
  "Dude let me explain."
  He turned to Grady. Waited. Grady swallowed and then said.
  "Man basically it's like this. We had a job tonight, on the down low if you know what I mean. They said we could take whatever shit we found and we took this here notebook. We ain't getting payment until next week but figured we might could cop a ball from you tonight and pay you instead with this, which is worth a hell of a lot more than three hundred. That's for damn sure."
	He grew impatient with their naive attempt to manipulate him. He pocketed the gun and then took a deep breath and expressed his confusion by repeating his words, "A notebook."
	"I told you we should of asked him ahead of time."
	"You a lie!" Grady said, "You said we needed to wait and show him in person first. Throw me under the bus, you lying bitch."
	"Don't call me a bitch, motherfucker. I'm the best thing you ever had in your life."
	He laughed.
  "Hardly!"
  "Hand me the backpack."
	Grady looked at him and then nodded. He reached for the backpack again until Will raised a hand.
  "Not you. Let Jenn do it."
  Jenn looked surprised but then she leaned over and reached for it.
  "Slower. I don't want to see your hand anywhere near the zipper."
  She slowed down, picked up the backpack by it's shoulder straps and held it out to him. He took it and unzipped the bag  and reached inside and pulled out an aluminum laptop with an Apple logo on the front, silver, in flawless condition.
  "A laptop."
  Grady shrugged.
  "Hell I don't know. I always called em notebooks. Ain't that what you call em?"
  "They're called laptops babe."
  "Well you didn't help clarify anything before."
  "Didn't think I need to."
  "Fuck you."
  "Don't tell me fuck you. You don't talk to me like that."
	"Hey."
	They stopped arguing and looked at him. He said nothing but placed the laptop on the dashboard and then gestured to it.
	"Turn it on."
	Grady lifted the lid, pushed a button and the screen turned on, the keyboard lit up, and the fans started blowing.
	"It takes it a minute to get crunk up. But it's a real nice one, as you can see. No scratches or dings or nothin. This here you could sell on Craigslist for a thousand bucks. A thousand easy. We looked it up."
	He gave it some thought.
	"Since this is our last score and all," Jenn said, her voice softening, "We thought we might could do you a solid. You know, as a parting gift."
	Grady broke in.
	"It works good man. We tested it out back home. It's even got some battery left. Got all the wires and shit in the backpack there."
  The login screen illuminated the inside of the cabin, bright white. Grady typed in a few keys to show that it worked and then shut it down again and closed the lid.
  He took the laptop from the dashboard and held it up and scrutinized it. It was heavy. Built solid. Good as new from the looks of it.
  "So we gotta deal or what?" Jenn said, with such a brazen tone that Grady shot her a look.
  He didn't answer. He regarded them both with skeptical eyes and then turned his attention to the laptop. He ran his fingers along the smooth, rounded edges, opened the lid and pressed on the keys, closed the lid again and weighed it carefully in hand.
  
  The door opened to the weekly-rate motel room where he had been staying since October of last year. Inside he set the backpack on the desk in the corner of the room and walked to the kitchenette with a sackful of Krystals and set them on the counter. He grabbed the bottle of Wild Turkey from the top of the fridge and poured three fingers into a dirty glass from the sink. He opened the smaller freezer and popped out a cube of ice from the tray and plopped it in the glass, swirled it around. The he brought the drink and the burgers to the bed and fell onto it, kicking off his work boots, and getting comfortable against the headboard. He switched on the TV that was mounted to the wall and flipped through the stations until he found the local weather and left it muted in the background while he ate and drank.
  An hour later he was stuffed and the motel room had begun to spin at odd angles. He thought to himself he would likely regret eating those gut bombs come morning but muttered aloud "Fuck it" to the empty room. He rose and went back to the kitchenette and poured another half glass of whisky. Then he paced the room, sloshing the drink. His mind was full.
  He thought about Grady and Jenn. They truly loved each other in their own fucked up way. They had a love that was as true as anything he'd ever known. Despite their constant bickering they had stayed together for many years. Their lives they shared completely, even in ruin, and they remained together. He admired it in a way and was jealous at the same time. He imagined what they were doing in this moment, their minds obliterated, sitting  together in their shit trailer out in Kingston. He remembered a time when he had something like that and in the next moment his stomach turned and he rushed into the bathroom and vomited half-digested Krystals and whisky into the toilet. On his hands and knees. Drooling. After a few minutes he stood up, wiped his mouth and brushed his teeth and washed his face in the sink and looked at himself in the mirror.
  It was this place that made him sick. The filth and the shabbiness and the stale smell of it here, reminding him how it must smell in the men's room of the Greyhound station in downtown Atlanta. Someday he would get out of this place. But that was much harder to do than it seemed. He tried to go back in his mind to the exact moment where things had gone south. He stumbled out of the bathroom and poured yet another drink. By now it was hard to focus on anything but he didn't care. He was able to focus for a few seconds on the microwave clock in the kitchenette. 4:30. In a few hours it would be morning and impossible for him to sleep anymore. The curtains on the window were shit. No matter how much you tried to close them, there remained a large gap at the sides where sunlight poured in brighter than all hell. He walked to the window overlooking the courtyard. The storm had passed and left puddles throughout the parking lot. They reflected the amber street lights next to the motel. There was no traffic this time of day, an odd car now and then. In the office on the other side of the courtyard he saw the lights on, a little Indian man sitting at the counter, watching porn on the desktop monitor. He reminded him a bit of Nanda, a man he used to work with at Marglen. 
  Will had worked the extruder at the plant for going on fifteen years before being laid off. He had seniority and was always asked to train the new guys moving up from the floor. He was respected by the management and had always liked his job and took pride in the work he did. Nanda was on the sanitation team and they used to see each other all the time in the break room, had a little routine.
  "Hey Nanda, how's it hanging, my friend?"
  Then Nanda would adjust himself conspicuously.
  "Little to the left today, Will," he would answer, "Thanks for asking, my friend."
  Marglen was also where he met up with Bill Henley, who he used to go out camping with up in Mentone, near Little River Canyon. They'd fish and drink beer and build a fire and raise a little hell. Bill was the one who introduced him to Danny Blankenship, who sold him weed for their camping trips. And now he worked for Rodriguez in Kennesaw, who had supplied Danny and now him. That's how it happens. 
  Then getting robbed at gunpoint during a transaction in the poor section of town. Gun in his face. Shouting. Him fumbling and doing what he was told. It was a rookie move to carry that much in the pickup with him, but he was in the process of moving to a new location and got the text. Whole stash took, just the once, and Rodriguez goes from friend to foe. "Don't take it so hard," he tells me, as if he were denying me a raise, "It's just the way it is sometimes in this business." Now in the hole for 300K.
  What he had learned too late was that there are no fireworks that go off when you make a decision that will eventually screw up your entire life. Sure, there are warning signs beforehand, from the people who love you, from your conscience if you still got one. But those all come beforehand and because of that uncertainty you have doubts. You might even call it hope. But in the moment itself, when the decision has been made, nothing happens at all. It passes like any other moment in your life. Yet it's different in one important way, that this decision has set off a domino line whose pattern will only become apparent as all the things you once believed were permanent in your life disappear one by one, until you are left with nothing except the realization of how fragile your world truly was.
  Out the window he saw a van swerve into the parking lot and pull sideways on the opposite side of courtyard. Two black men got out and went to door 119 and banged on it with their fists. The curtain in the room opened and then the door cracked with the safety latch secured. One of the men stood back and kicked the door in and then both of them rushed inside and beat the hell out of a man inside. He assumed it was a man, all he saw was them huddled over a dark figure, punching and kicking, furiously. A woman appeared in the doorway and screamed for help. The men stopped and pulled her back into the room. His eyes went to the Indian in the office, who was now looking in the direction of room 119, on the phone. The men came out at last, breathing hard, got in the van and sped off down the road. The entire thing didn't last more than a few minutes. Now he could see the man inside writhing on the floor, the woman hovering over him, crying.
  He was far from it. Only dimly did he hear the sirens of the ambulance when it finally arrived. Everything seemed unreal to him. He lay back on the bed and looked at the ceiling. The single lightbulb in the fixture above was spiraling and he felt like he was about to fall off the bed, so he stumbled over to the desk chair and put his head in his hands, but that only made the spinning in his head worse. He made it to the toilet and wretched again and came back and this time got on the floor, his skewed logic being that if he could get low enough it would stop his dizziness. Images from his old life rose up in his mind, camping with Bill Henley, high as a kite and talking shit around the campfire about the existence of God, the blast of heat from the extruder on an already sweltering July day. Suzanne. Joseph. It all rose up in his mind. Everything he was able to suppress in the daylight rose up. He wept on the floor, head covered by his hands, and tried to quiet his mind.
  His eyes went to the television on the wall. It was the news, a replay of the eleven news from earlier that night. There had been an explosion at a research laboratory at Gateway Industrial Park, just outside of town. News crew footage showed a building in flames, charred debris at the windows and doorways, completely destroyed. No word on victims yet the newswoman said. Then there was a cutaway to a security camera outside the building, two figures wearing masks, carrying a gasoline can and other tools into the building. He rose from the floor but the dizziness caused him to fall again. He got to his feet and slapped himself and tried to focus on the television but he was too drunk, the details of what they were saying slipped past him. Then there was more footage of a familiar muscle car, a Dodge, peeling out, its tail lights unmistakable. Then a number flashed at the bottom of the screen for the Floyd County Police Department, who requested anybody with information to call them. Then the story was over and the anchors moved on to sports.
  He went to the desk and opened the backpack and pulled out the laptop and opened it and turned it on. After a minute he saw the account avatar on the logic screen, a cute graphic of a DNA strand next to the username, _z.jackson_. The account was password protected. He stared at the computer for a couple minutes and then he closed it and put it back into the backpack and stood there unable to process anything. Though drunk as he was, he knew this was not good.
  Then from the corner of his eye he saw red and blue flashing lights in the courtyard below and in his drunken state he panicked. Thought they were after him. He dropped to the floor and crawled to the window, peering out. It was only then he remembered the beating of the man and the ambulance. And now two patrol cars were also in the parking lot, a group of them talking to the Indian office manager near room 119. He got to his feet and saw other lights in the other rooms watching the scene just like him. Suddenly there was a camera flash in his eyes and the next thing he saw was one of the officers putting a cell phone back into his pocket, looking directly at him. He closed the curtain, opening it only enough to see out of.
  The woman who had been in the room was outside too, crossing her arms in the cold, giving a statement to one of the officers. He could see the police in the group leering at her from the corners of their eyes. All she had on was a thin silk gown and slippers, even in this cold. He followed their eyes and found himself also fixated on her curves, on her breasts through the gown, on her nipples through the silk. He remembered the first time he had ever kissed Suzanne, during spring break in Panama City Beach. He saw her with with some friends on the boardwalk and worked up the courage to introduce himself and ask her to accompany him on a walk down the fishing pier. To his surprise  she said yes and they walked the pier and after they went dancing at a beachside club, sand on the wooden floor. He had never been the dancing kind but he found that liked to dance with her. He did feel silly but for some reason that didn't seem to matter with Suzanne. He could be silly. He could be whoever he wanted to be. Later they went to the beach, under the moonlight, and he took a chance and pecked her on the cheek, an awkward move for sure. But before long they had dropped to the sand and he kissed her neck and looked up and saw her eyes closed in ecstasy. He lifted her shirt and kissed her smooth, pale stomach, rubbed her body. Then he reached up and kissed her deeply on the mouth and could still remember how their embrace felt to him out there on the sand with the waves crashing in. 
  The police were gone. The door to room 119 was closed. The woman in the silk robe was nowhere to be seen. Just over the roof of the motel the sky was turning pinkish gray. There were morning commuters driving past, their headlights moving across the far side of the motel. His head stopped spinning at last but his mind was far from clear. His eyes went to the pool in the center of the courtyard, uncovered, unkept, and plainly unused. It was filled with a green, brackish water in which floated leaves, styrofoam cups from the gas station, a used condom, and other unidentifiable debris. The sight of the pool took him back to a vacation with his dad, brother, and sister, to Daytona beach when they were just kids. Though they had never seen the ocean before they were more excited about the pool at the motel and after much complaining his dad reluctantly agreed to let them leave the beach to go swim at the motel pool for the afternoon. He could still remember the chlorinated smell of that water and the bright orange arm floats his little brother wore as he swam in the shallow end, then only five. He remembered the brown siding of the motel, the bright blue of the sky against it, looking up at the white clouds going by. The smell of the Burger King next door to the motel, a smoky aroma of meat on the grill. It was all there as if he could reach out and touch it. It was funny how clearly he could still recall that memory and see it and smell it. Then he had a feeling of how far he was from those days, at how happy he was, at how fun it all was and how his life would never again be so much fun. He thought about Joseph and wondered if he would remember him as he remembered his own father and that was the last thing he thought before sleep took him.