
1

  Headlights from the car shone onto a toppled shopping cart in the alleyway behind Huffaker Crossing, an abandoned strip mall where the Krogers used to be, where he liked to meet up with folks this side of town. *That Dodge makes enough racket to wake up the dead*, the man in the pickup thought. *Grady's kiddin himself if he thinks he'll ever restore that old piece of shit. Poor motherfucker*. The Dodge turned into the darkened area where his pickup truck sat idle and the beams entered the cabin and blinded him. He shielded his eyes as it pulled up. The headlights switched off but the motor was kept running, smoke curling from its tailpipe. As he waited, the man in the pickup listened to the patter of sleet on the rooftops and the moans of wind through the power lines overhead. He observed the paint flaking off the corners of the doors and the concrete pylons that shielded the air conditioning units, rust in those places. Everything was cast in amber hue, from a pole at the other end of the corridor. Behind the alleyway was a thin tree line, behind which was an unused railroad track and beyond that a trailer park of Mexicans.
  He had arrived nearly half an hour ago. He always did. There was a classic rock n roll tune called *Waiting for the Man* with a lyric that went, *first thing you learn is that you always got to wa-hait*. What horseshit. Nowadays it was. The way it was now, you get there before the other guy. Always. Scope things out, peer behind the bins and around all the corners. Under rocks. Everywhere. Be like a fiend yourself, paranoid. No doubt that was why he was still breathing while many others he knew of were not.
  The door to the pickup opened and in slid a woman and a man. 
  "Shut the goddamn door. Its fucking cold out here."
  The man slammed the door. The woman lit up a cigarette and opened the tray in the console. Between his legs the man held a backpack of unknown contents.
  "Will baby, how you been, darlin?"
  "Jenn."
  "Yo, what up Will. Thanks for meeting us so late."
  "Grady."
  Jenn ashed her cigarette in the tray. She was thin. As thin as he had ever seen her. Hair wiry, greasy. Fingernails bitten to the quick. Body odor. Skin ashen, pockmarked. And those teeth. Jesus Christ. He remembered a time she had been attractive. Beautiful even. Back then her hands didn't shake like that when she smoked. Back then there was light behind her eyes.
  "Dude, what you gave us last time was straight. We was trippin balls for like seven days, I swear to God!"
  He said nothing, only palmed the handgun in his left jacket pocket. Nodded. Then with his right hand he pulled out the eight ball, tied in a plastic baggie. Both their eyes went there, squinted.
  "Well there it is," Jenn said, "But here's the thing Will, this here is me and Grady's last score. We going straight edge. God as my witness."
  He didn't respond, only looked at them both.
  "Tell you something else," she continued, "That shit right there. That shit will kill you. Deader then hell. You bet your ass. It robs you of your life. It robs you of your kids. It don't care one iota. It robs you of everything. You oughta be ashamed to sell this to people. It’s devilish. It’s ungodly."
  "Shut the the fuck up, Jenn," Grady said, "man don't need a lecture."
  "Well I'm sorry, but you know me, I ain't got no filters. I just tell it like it is."
  "Three hundred."
  The tweakers looked at Will. Both nodded and then Jenn turned to Grady and gestured to the backpack in the floorboard.
  "Show him, babe."
  Grady reached down and unzipped the backpack. But as he did so Will pulled the gun from his jacket pocket and aimed the barrel at Grady.
  "Fuck you doing?"
  Grady raised both hands, palms out, innocent.
  "Bro, its cool. I swear."
  "Its just a notebook. That's all it is."
  He looked from Grady to Jenn. For a few moments in the pickup it was totally silent, except for the heater blower and a low song playing on the radio.
  "Let me explain, Will."
  He looked at Grady.
  "Man, basically its like this. Me and Jenn had a job tonight. On the down low if you know what I mean. They said we could take whatever shit we found, from the place, and we got this notebook and backpack. We won't be getting paid until next week for the job but figured we could get a ball from you, and maybe pay you with this notebook, which is worth a hell of a lot more than three hundred. That's for damn sure."
  He grew impatient with their stupidity, with their naive attempt to manipulate him. He snapped. "What the fuck do you mean notebook? Start making sense, or I don't know what I'll do."
  "I told you we should have asked him ahead of time, Grady."
  "Bullshit, Jenn! You told me we needed to wait, show him in person. Throw me under the bus, you fucking bitch!"
  "Don't call me a bitch, motherfucker. I'm the best thing you ever had in your life."
  "Hardly," Grady laughed.
  "Hand me the backpack."
  Grady looked at Will, then nodded. He reached for the bag.
  "Not you. Let Jenn do it."
  Jenn put down her cigarette. She reached for the bag.
  "Slower. I don't want to see your hand anywhere near the zipper."
  She slowed down, picked up the backpack by the shoulder straps and held it out to Will. He unzipped the bag with his free hand and reached inside and pulled out an aluminum computer, silver, in perfect condition.
  "A computer? Why didn't you just say so?"
  Grady shrugged.
  "Hell I don't know, I always call em notebooks. Ain't that what you call em?"
  "They're laptops babe."
  "Well you didn't help clarify anything before."
  "Fuck off, Jenn."
  "Don't tell me to fuck off, Grady. You don't talk to me like that!"
	"Shut the fuck up you two."
	They stopped cold and looked to Will. He said nothing. He handed the computer over to Grady.
	"Turn it on."
	Grady lifted the lid, pushed a button and the screen turned on, the keyboard lit up, and the fans started blowing.
	"It takes a few minutes to get crunk up. But it's a real nice one, as you can see. No scratches or dings or nothin. This thing you could sell on Craigslist for a thousand bucks. A thousand easy. We looked it up online."
  "But then we got to thinking," Jenn stepped in, her voice softening, "to save time, what if you just let us give it to you in exchange for a ball? Then you could make a ton off just this one score. Just this one time, you know."
  Grady interrupted, selling it.
  "It works good, see, we tested it out. Its even got some battery left. Got all the wires, in the bag there."
  The login screen lit up the inside of the cabin, a green leafy background. Grady typed in a few keys to show that it worked. A message popped up that the password was incorrect.
  He put the handgun pack into his jacket pocket and reached over and grabbed the computer. It was heavy in his hand. Solidly  built. Brand new from the looks of it.
  "So whatddya think?" Jenn asked, with such brazen confidence that Grady shot her a look.
  Will said nothing. He merely regarded them both with skeptical eyes and ran his fingers along the outside and over the keyboard and then closed the lid and weighed it in hand.
  
  Inside, he set the backpack on the desk and walked to the kitchenette carrying a sackful of Krystals. He pulled a pint of Wild Turkey from the top of the fridge and poured two fingers into a dirty glass, added an ice cube, and then fell back onto the bed with the drink and the burgers, flipping through the basic cable stations that came with the room.
  After he was stuffed and his was head spinning. He knew in the morning he would regret eating these gut bombs so late. But fuck it. He stumbled to the kitchenette and poured another and began pacing the hotel room. Someday soon he would be out of this. Then he might be able to regain some kind of control, might move out of this shithole and get a regular place again, a real place. Get a dog. He thought about what Grady and Tina were doing in this moment, their minds obliterated on the drugs, there on the couch in their shit trailer out in Kingston. Obliterated but in love. He remembered how he had once been in love. In that moment his stomach turned and he ran into the bathroom and chucked burgers and whisky into the toilet. It was this place, the filth, the cigarette smoke. Always the stale smell of it. He rose from the toilet, wiped his mouth and brushed his teeth and washed his face and looked at himself in the mirror.
  Back in the kitchenette he poured another drink. The clock read four thirty. In a few hours it would be daylight and impossible anymore for him to sleep. The curtains were no good, there was a big area at the sides where the sunlight came in brighter than all hell. So he would be tired all tomorrow. He walked to the window overlooking the parking lot. In the office on the other side he saw the fluorescent lights on, the little Indian man who ran the hotel awake, drinking coffee. He was a hard worker. He reminded him a bit of Nanda, a man he used to work with at Beaulieu before they shut the doors in 2009. He had worked the extruder there for going on fifteen years. Had seniority, was always asked to train the new guys moving up from the floor. Nanda was on the sanitation team and they used to see each other all the time in the break room, do the old routine,
  "How's it hanging, Nanda?"
  The little guy then adjusted his crotch.
  "Little to the left today, Will" he would answer, "Thanks for asking, my friend."
  Beaulieu was also where he met up with Glenn, who he used to go  out camping with up in Mentone, near Little River Canyon. Glenn was the one who introduced him to Danny, who sold him weed for their camping trips. And now he worked for Rodriguez from Kennesaw, who supplied Danny and now him. That's how it happens. And one time getting robbed at gunpoint during a Craigslist meet up. Whole stash took, just one time, and Rodriguez goes from friendly to fierce. It's just business, he tells me. That's just the way it goes. In the hole for 100K. I'll never be free from this life.
  Out the window he saw a van swerve into the lot and park sideways on the side opposite of his room. Two black men got out and went to door 104 and banged on it with their fists. The curtain in the room opened and then the door cracked but with the safety latch in place. One of the men stood back and kicked the door in. Then the both of them rushed inside and beat the shit out of the man inside. He assumed it was a man, all he saw was them huddled over some dark shape, punching and kicking, furiously. A girl appeared in the door and shouted for help. The men rose and pushed her into the room, and then left. His eyes went to the Indian in the office, who was looking in the direction of the room, on the phone. The men came out, breathing hard, got in the car, and sped off. The entire thing didn't last more than a few minutes. He could see the man inside writhing on the floor, the girl hovering over him.
  He was far from it. Only dimly did he hear the sirens of the ambulance when it arrived. Everything was unreal. The room was spinning, so he sat down on the hard chair and put his head in his hands, but that only made the spinning worse. He wretched again and came back and lay on the bed. Thoughts of Suzanne and his old life, camping with Glenn, high as a kite and talking shit about the existence of God, his old job at the carpet mill. His boy.
  His eyes went to the television on the dresser. It was the news, a replay of the eleven o clock news. There had been an explosion at a research lab at the local college. Helicopter footage of the building in flames, charred debris at the windows and doorways, completely destroyed. No survivors the newswoman said. They showed pictures of them. Young, grad students. Then there was a cutaway to some video footage outside the place, a closeup of Grady and Jenn, carrying a gasoline can and other tools into the building. He rose from the bed but the dizziness caused him to fall off. He got to his feet and slapped himself and tried to pay attention but he was too drunk, the details were slipping by him. Then there was some grainy footage of a Dodge Dart driving off, the tail lights and smoke unmistakable. Then there was a number at the bottom of the screen to call for any information. Then the story was over and they moved on to the weather.
  His went to the computer on the dresser. He lifted the lid and turned it on. Once again he looked at the account avatar, the cute graphic of a DNA strand, and a username, z.jackson. It was password protected.
  From the corner of his eye he saw the red and blue flashing lights behind the curtain and in his drunken state he was startled by them. He knelt low and crawled to the window, peering out. It was only then he remembered the beating and the ambulance. Now two patrol cars were also in the parking lot, a group of them talking near room 104. He rose to his feet and saw others in other rooms watching, like him. There was a flash from a camera and he saw one of the officers putting a cell phone back into his pocket, facing him. The girl was crying, crossing her arms in the cold, giving a statement to one of the police. The other police in the group leered from the corners of their eyes. All she wore was a thin silk gown. In this cold. He found himself also fixated on the shape of the woman, on her breasts through the gown, on her nipples through the silk. He remembered the first time he kissed Suzanne, Spring break in Panama City Beach. He worked up the courage and asked her to walk the fishing pier with him. She said yes. After they went dancing. He was not the dancing type but he liked to dance with her. They walked down to the beach and he took a chance and kissed her slowly on the cheek, awkwardly. They dropped to the sand and he kissed her neck and looked up and saw her eyes closed in ecstasy. He lifted her shirt and kissed her smooth, pale stomach, lifted her bra and kissed her breasts. Then he kissed her deeply and could still remember how their embrace felt, close, as if two souls were holding onto the other at the edge of an abyss. He thought of their time together, then years later, just after the delivery of their son. It hurt him to think of his son.
  The police were gone. The door to room 104 was closed. The woman in the silk robe nowhere to be seen. Just over the roof of the hotel the sky was fading from night to dim, pinkish gray. Morning commuters in traffic on the road beside the hotel. His head had stopped spinning at last but his mind was far from clear. His eyes landed on the pool in the center of the parking lot, unkept, unused in years, covered with a tarp partially blown open. Green, stagnant water lapped at the sides of the once ocean blue lining, now a hard plastic white. The sight of it took him to a vacation with his dad and brother and sister, to Fernandina beach when they were just kids. Though they had never seen the ocean they were more excited about the pool at the hotel and their dad reluctantly agreed to let them leave the beach to go there for the afternoon. How clearly he could still remember the smell of that water and the bright orange arm floats his little brother wore, only five. The brown siding of the hotel, the bright blue against it, looking up. The white clouds. It was all there as if it were yesterday, funny how clearly he could still recall that time and even smell it. Then a feeling inside of how far he was from those days, at how happy he had been then, at how fun it all was and how his life would never again been so much fun. He thought about his son and if he would remember him as he remembered his own father and that was the last thing he thought before sleep took him.
  