2
 
 He awoke with his head at the foot of the bed, under every bit of blanket and sheets there were. No pillow. He slept that direction to be closer to the heater. Using his left arm as a pillow had cut off its circulation. He moved his arm for several minutes before the pinpricks faded. He had slept hard in the night and had not dreamed. There had been a heaviness to his sleep that was hard to shake off, hard to keep his eyes open. It was not just the whiskey, though it didn't help. The TV was still on. Such was his dreamy state of mind, one second the room was silent then the next he heard the sound of it blaring, a particularly obnoxious commercial about breakfast cereal. He lay there and listened, his eyes still too heavy to get out of the bed. Soon he heard the news, a beautiful Latina voice reading the local headlines from the Atlanta metro area.

  "Top story this morning, we have updates on the break-in and subsequent explosion, which occurred last night at a technology research center on the Berry College campus in North Georgia. Footage was recovered which showed an old car speeding through the security gate at 11:05 pm. The car drove to the research center and two suspects emerged with garden tools and a can of gasoline. They broke into the building, as seen on this footage, by smashing the glass doors, triggering the alarm. Ten minutes later they emerge from the building, carrying unidentified objects, and speed away. Approximately 11:37 pm an explosion occurs in the east side of the building, and slowly spreads until it is visible on the security tape, here. It was thought originally the building was empty, but we have confirmation from school security there was a single student logged into the building, apparently working late, and so far authorities have not been able to locate this student. We have approval from local police to show an image of the student, who has been identified as Zoey Jackson, a graduate student in the computer science program at the college."
	
  He arose and watched the story intently, the recollection of the news from last night coming back to him, slowly, vaguely. His blurred vision focused on the image of the student, a nice looking black girl, smirking, the mugshot-like quality of the photograph obviously from her student identification.
  
  "Ms. Jackson has so far not been found, nor reached by contact information on school records. Police have begun a search for Ms. Jackson and would like us to provide a phone number where you may call anonymously to provide information, about this incident. If you do have information, either regarding the whereabouts of Ms. Jackson or the two perpetrators, please call the number at the bottom of the screen. In other news..."
  
   It came back to him, how he had recognized the unmistakable tail lights of that old Dodge in his drunken state last night. But then there was just a blank. Nothing. He remembered nothing else. But it was them. Who else would drive such a piece of shit? And then it hit him. He shook off the remnants of sleep and went to the table by the window. There on the table was the notebook, the computer Grady and Jenn had convinced him to trade for the drugs last night. He opened the lid and turned it on. The login screen came up and he recognized the username from last night, z.jackson.
   He shut the lid and went to his phone. It lay next to the bag of half-eaten Krystals, now crawling with roaches, feeding on the dried onions and mustard. "No. No. Fuck no," he said, and then let out another tortured *Fuck no* when he saw his last text to Grady,
   
  the fuck did this computer come from? u r on 11 news! txt me back soon
   
  He looked at the text in disbelief and finally tossed it on the bed. He paced the room for the next fifteen minutes, stopping only to vomit in the toilet, a combination of nerves and the hangover. He poured some water from the bathroom faucet and drank it down. His mouth was dry and now slimed and the cold water washed away the acid taste. He went to the window and peaked out, the parking lot during the day emptied out as the out-of-town construction workers and electricians went to work. Nobody was outside. He saw the woman who worked the day shift in the office, on the phone. Then he turned back to the room.
  He went to the bathroom and pulled down a rag hung over the shower rod, wet it and returned to the computer. He wiped it down, picking it up with a t-shirt, both inside and out. Then he placed it in the Krystal bag and tied a knot. Roaches escaped and scurried behind the mirror. He put on his jacket and beanie and took another peak out the window. Nobody. He grabbed his wallet and keys and went out the door.
  Outside he turned to the right, where an old busted washer and drier sat unused. Then the ice machine, which was. The only thing past the machines was a small empty yard behind the office and a chainlink fence marking the boundary of property. He went towards the yard, around the end of the building and turned a corner to the right. This led him to the alley behind the rooms, a narrow dirt path parallel to the fence, woods behind. Now the bathroom window of all the rooms overlooked this alley, so he knelt low and crept as fast as he could with the bag in hand, all the way down.
  At the other end of the building, around that corner, was a brown garbage bin. There was a thin row of pines separating the bin from the road, sidewalk, morning traffic going by. The bin was closed from this side, since everybody used the more convenient side facing the hotel entrance. But he wanted to remain unseen. He waited and then when he was sure nobody was around he crept up beneath the back of the bin. He slid open the backside and tossed in the bag then closed it. Then he went back the way he came, the same way he went before, creeping, quiet.
  He got in his pickup and looked at the text once again. He nearly picked up the phone to call Grady, then thought better of that. He nearly sent a text, then realized just how stupid he was being. He pumped the gas a couple times then turned the ignition. He let it warm up then pulled out and headed down Martha Berry then up the bypass, towards Kingston.
  The local station was playing music, top 40, interrupting only for weather updates, more cold, black ice on bridges, but no news about the break-in. No panic. He kept a close watch in his mirrors for any police. He was taking a chance but the data on that phone was incriminating. He was sure it was a burner, he didn't deal with folks who didn't have one, but as long as it was on their person it could incriminate him. And that could not happen. He went the long way, around Ward mountain, instead of the more direct route. He came up Price Road where he knew there was a dirt utility road leading into the woods which surrounded the trailer park where they lived. He drove up and down the road a couple times, to lookout for any police, any suspicious vehicles. Nothing. It was still soon. Good he acted when he did.
  He turned into the utility road and navigated the deep ruts and icy mud holes until he was well hidden amongst the pines. He tucked the gun into his jacket pocket and got out. He made a best guess which way into the woods would lead him to their trailer. He had only been there once, years ago, when he and Grady were drinking buddies and not customer client. The dried leaves made so much noise as he shuffled into the woods he wondered if this was a better idea than just driving up. He did his best and tried not to shuffle as best he could.
  Gusts of wind blew through the pines. He stopped and leaned against a tree. In the clearing he spied the backside of a trailer. He kept walking. Soon he emerged from the wood line, creeping along the edge of it, where he would hopefully remain unseen. Down towards the cul-de-sac he recognized the faded yellow siding on Grady and Jenn's single wide, behind which was a shoddy porch and natural gas tank. Pulled into the trees nearby was the old Dodge, well hidden by broken branches and leaves piled on top. He went up the steps of the back porch.
  Through the back window he saw the stove overhead light on, fast food wrappers on the counter, though sunlight beamed through the living room window, next to the entertainment center, a cheap shelf with a small flat screen TV on top, The Wizard of Oz playing on it. No signs of Grady and Jenn. No signs at all. He drew his gun and knelt beside the door, then rapped twice with his knuckles, quietly. A minute passed, he knocked again, louder this time. Waited. Two more minutes, nothing.
  He thought to text Grady, let him know he was back there. He thought they might be hiding. It's possible they were on the run, but knowing them, not likely. He banged on the door with his fist, waited a minute, and heard nothing. On the left end of the trailer was a small bedroom window. He crept around and climbed onto a rusted-out riding lawnmower underneath it. Cupping his hands around the pane he tried to make out what was inside, but it was too dark. With no affordance from the outside to lift the window he pushed up against it with his palms and after a few moments of steady force it creaked up a few inches.
  His left foot came down on a toy box made of cardboard. It sunk under his weight but held enough for him to get the footing he needed to heave his body through the narrow opening. His back  scraped against the metal frame and hurt like hell, but he remained silent, pulling his right leg through the window and setting down gently on the floor. There were toys piled here. A crib stuffed with boxes. Diapers in the corner. A moon and star mobile still hanging from one of the panels in the ceiling, glittering in the light from the still open window. Wooden blocks strewn on the floor and he stepped around them as he approached the door to listen.
  Silence. 
  He stood there for a few minutes, waiting for any kind of sound, movement, voices, whatever. The last thing he wanted was to frighten a tweaked-out fiend in his own house. But he had to get Grady to erase that text message. It was the only way to ensure he wouldn't get caught up whatever mess they had gotten themselves into. He breathed in deeply and turned the knob and opened the door just a few inches. This door led to a bathroom on the right and a narrow hallway into the kitchen and living room.
  "Grady? Jenn? This is Will. You guys at home?"
  No answer. He waited a bit longer and then opened the door and went into the hallway. He crouched as he emerged.
  "This is Will. I just want to see if you guys are home."
  Slowly he rose. On the floor in the area leading to the bathroom a massive pile of clothes and spare engine parts was blocking his way. He crept around it and continued down the hallway. The hallway was dark, lined with picture frames of their family. Very old ones black and white ones of who he supposed were their parents in their high school days. Then a larger one, a Sears family portrait of Grady and Jenn with their two kids between them, dressed in their Sunday finest. Tasteful blue background. They looked much different then.
  As he came into the kitchen the smell of garbage overwhelmed his sense of smell. Something rotten. Trash overflowed from the can beside the oven onto the floor. The sink was filled with dirty dishes. The refrigerator door was partly opened, cool air leaking out. He passed the backdoor he had looked through earlier as he entered the living room. There was an ashtray on the coffee table, filled with ashes and a few broken glass pipes and cigarette butts. Next to it was the eight ball, opened.
  The front door was locked with a chain. The door to the master bedroom was on the other side of the living room. It was half closed. Nobody was here. He nearly sent a text to Grady but decided to check the last room, just in case they were passed out.
  "Grady? Jenn? This is Will. Just checking in on you guys. This is Will. Hello?"
  He walked to the door to the master bedroom and pushed it open. On the walls and on the dresser and the window against the wall he saw red splatter. So much of it. He stumbled backwards and pushed the doorknob through the cheap drywall. On the bed lay what remained of Grady and Jenn, but it was only from their clothes that he could identify them. Their bodies were mutilated beyond recognition, floating in a stagnant pool of their own blood. The fluids and viscera went up to the walls and even speckled the ceiling.
  He covered his mouth and went to the living room. He fell onto the couch and tried to keep from retching. The smell and the sight of the horror kept repeating in his brain. He took in deep breaths. But a few moments he rose and started to look around for the cell phone. He looked everywhere, on the end table, on the coffee table, on the chairs, between the cushions. In the kitchen. Nowhere. He stopped momentarily and looked deep in thought. In reality he was psyching himself for what he knew he had to do. He took a few more breaths and went back to the master bedroom. He covered his mouth as he tried to find the pockets in their clothes, also shredded to the point of un-recognition. He retched a few times but as he had not eaten since last night nothing came out. His hands were now stained red. Nothing found.
  At last he could take no more and ran out again and sat on the recliner facing the TV. He watched the loop of Dorothy walking the fence, Toto just behind, then the Tin Man dancing, then the Scarecrow doffing his hat, the Lion cowering, the entrance to the Emerald City, the  Wizard behind the curtain, a closeup of the ruby slippers. His cell phone vibrated in his front pocket and his heart felt like it was going to jump out of his mouth, "Jesus Christ Almighty, Fuck me in the Ass! Fuck you!"
  He took a few deep breaths and then reached in his pocket. He did not want to look at the phone. It was a text message, he knew that from the vibration. It could be anybody. It could be a customer. It could be Rodriguez. They were the ones who had this number. They were the only ones. He flipped over the phone. It was a text from Grady,
  
  We need the notebook you have. Please stay put
  
  He sat back down on the couch. He chewed his lip and then wondered why he was doing that. It was not something he normally did, chewing. He looked at his arms and legs and it was like he was looking at someone else. Then some thoughts started to come to the forefront of his mind. One was notebook, the word notebook for the computer. And the other was 'Please stay put'. It was very, polite. Respectful even. That did not reconcile with the image of Grady and Jenn in the master bedroom, an image he would never forget. But then, after he got over the seeming politeness of the request he started to think about what it implied. Did they know where he was? And then, how did they know?
  He went to the front window and peered out of the blinds. From  here you could see clear to the top of the hill, to the dirt road that went through the trailer park. And then he saw a car, an Oldsmobile from the eighties, Burgundy in color and boxy styled, zooming over the hill, spewing dust and rocks into the air. He waited no longer.
  Outside the back door flung open and he darted down the steps and ran as fast as he could into the woods. In this state of mind all he could remember was the general direction of where he parked, East, so that's where he went. He passed trees and kicked up leaves and was making so much noise that he was sure anyone who was listening could easily hear him. But still that seemed preferable to what would happen if they caught him.
  Now in the distance he heard voices, at the door. Talking to themselves, listening to hear what direction he was running. Then shouts. He kept running. He looked back for just a moment but when he turned back he was staring down a tree in his path. He had just enough time to swerve to the left but still his shoulder grazed the lowest hanging limb. The gun fell from his hand and vanished into a pile of dry leaves. He had no time to stop to recover it. He thought he heard besides his loud shuffling the sounds of others and then a loud pop. Gunfire. Still he ran, zigging in this direction and zagging in the other. More gunfire, more shouting. How many were there? It sounded like a lot of them.
  Then he found the open area where his pickup was parked and jumped inside. He fumbled with the keys and started the engine. As he put the truck in gear he heard more shouting nearby. He spun the truck around in reverse and put it in drive a little too soon. He drove right into a drainage ditch and collided with the opposite wall. Immediately he flung the pickup in reverse and backed out. The wheels spun for a few seconds but then grabbed hold. He heard more shouts and a loud pop and a louder ding. They hit the truck.
  He put it in drive one more time and sped towards the dirt road leading to the main road. He turned left down Price and continued as fast as he could to lose them in case they decided to follow, but not so fast as to attract the police.