
3

  The setting sun glanced over the roof of the downtown library, casting long shadows over the cars in the parking lot. He pulled into a spot near the back. It was a hidden spot next to a paved trail that ran alongside the Etowah River. Too risky to park at the hotel. Maybe they had seen the truck during the escape. He took off down the trail. Oak leaves tumbled around his boots. A winter wind. The river was high. Muddy. It would be dark soon. That was what he wanted. He made his way underneath the overpass, winding to the south, to a rusted bridge unused since the new one opened up a few years ago. In fact it was blocked off by a barricade. He jumped the barricade and ran to the other side of the river. Then he walked a few blocks and crossed a few intersections until he was on the road behind the hotel, or what he thought was that road. He wasn't sure but kept going. When he arrived to the hotel he slowed down and walked casually up to his room and unlocked the door. 
  The room was ransacked. The mattress was flipped on its side next to the bed and shredded with a knife, stuffing hanging out. The dresser drawers were all pulled, his belongings strewn on the floor. Same in the kitchenette. Everything that could close was opened. Contents everywhere. Silverware, plates, leftover food, papers from his divorce, the restraining order. Everything. He went to the door and fastened the chain latch and turned the deadbolt. Not that it would do much good. On the back of the door in pink magic marker he read a message, possibly from some prostitute to another, Don't forget to lock the door, honey!!!, the dots on the exclamation points were smiley faces.
  He stood near the window and parted the curtains just enough to see into the parking lot. It was twilight and hard to make anything out, but headlights from the five o clock traffic gave him enough light to do a survey. There were late-model sedans, work trucks, a jeep, but near the back he saw a boxy-shaped vehicle and was reminded of the Oldsmobile from the trailer park. Not many of those on the road anymore. He saw smoke from the tailpipe and what he thought were two dark silhouettes inside. He stared at that car for a minute but saw no movement or indication they were watching his room. He closed the curtain. He sat down on the bed and nearly called the police but thought better of that. Instead he turned on the TV. He wanted to see the six news.
  
  "Top Story tonight. Police have confirmed two murdered bodies found in a Kingston trailer park to be the suspects in the break-in and fire which occurred at the research facility on the college campus last night. Police were notified of the bodies by an anonymous phone call this afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Grady and Jenn Upton of Kingston. Related, police have identified the body pulled from the remains of the research facility to be that of Zoey Jackson, a graduate student who was the only person on log to be inside the facility during the time of the break-in. Investigators have asked anyone who has information about the break-in or murders to please contact police headquarters with any information. We'll put a phone number on the screen below. Is it there? Good. Thanks Jim. Moving on, the Riverside Square and Folk Dance Festival is headed to Ridge Ferry park this weekend, and organizers want to know, Are you ready for the Hootenanny?"
  
  He sat on the bed. He couldn't breathe. It was supposed to be automatic but somewhere over the last few minutes his body had forgotten about that responsibility. He took some deep breaths in, but couldn't escape this feeling of suffocation, of drowning. He thought about the computer in the bin outside. He wondered if it were still there. As much as he'd like to forget all of this, he was in it, and the more info he had the more likely he would be to make it out alive. Just like a drug deal.
  He switched on the lamp and wiped his face with his hands. He thought deeply for several minutes, completely still. Then got up. First he went to the bathroom window and wedged the screwdriver where it couldn't be opened. He was sure if they were watching then they would be watching the alleyway behind this place. So it was off limits. He turned off the lamp so that it was completely dark in the room. He picked up the phone in the room and started to dial, but then the cell phone in his pocket vibrated. He put the phone back on the receiver and pulled the cell phone from his pocket.
  
  We need the notebook
 
  No response for a couple minutes. He was about to put the phone back in his pocket when another message arrived.
  
  Please stay put
  
  He tossed the phone on the bed and picked up the room phone. He dialed and closed his eyes, took a deep breath.
  "911, what is your emergency?"
  "Yes, there is a room fire at the Relax Inn on Martha Berry. The fire is at room 115 and its spreading fast. Please send firetrucks. There are injuries also."
  A moment later.
  "Okay sir, fire trucks are enroute to Relax Inn on Martha Berry. Can you tell me who is injured and what are their injuries? Please stay on the line with me as long as you can, until paramedics arrive on scene."
  He hung up.
  Minutes later he could hear the sirens coming down Martha Berry and then saw the red and white flashing lights reflecting off the fast food joint across the street. Then a firetruck and ambulance pulled into the hotel parking lot, followed by two police cars, red and blue lights flashing, reflecting off the rooms and the glass windows. People emerged with concerned faces. He waited for his chance. When enough firefighters and EMTs and police officers were deployed with their gear, when enough hotel occupants filled the parking lot, he made a dash for it.
  He opened the door to his room and crept along the walkway in the direction of the garbage bin at the end of the row. He reached the edge and went around the corner, in the dark, where he would not be seen. He rose and opened the sliding metal door of the bin. It had not been picked up but there was much more trash inside than earlier. It smelled bad. He took a breath and pulled himself up and disappeared into the bin.
  He fished in between the bags of trash and loose wet trash of mysterious origin and eventually found the computer. It was covered in some kind of slime he hoped hadn't corrupted the internals of the machine. But then he heard noises just outside and stopped.
  He listened and thought he heard shuffling on the ground around the bin, whispers, but he wasn't sure. If they were watching maybe they had seen him even in the confusion of his emergency distraction. He waited. There were two openings to the bin, one facing the parking lot, the one he had entered, and another facing the opposite way, towards the small pine trees behind the place. He picked up a large, heavy bag and positioned himself so that he could be facing the opening towards the parking lot with the other directly behind him.
  And then he heaved the large bag out the opening and it landed with a solid thud on the pavement. Immediately he saw two dark figures pounce on it from the side and without a moment of hesitation he jumped backwards and leapt out of the back opening and scrambled into the pack of pine trees up the hill. He heard them behind him and heard their shouts, even a shrill kind of shriek that filled him with primal dread. Whoever they were they were not just doing a job. They were filled with rage.
  He slipped on a slick bed of pine straws and felt a hand on his ankle grab hold. He kicked backwards with all his strength while simultaneously heaving upwards on his palms and elbows. He made contact and heard a groan and was on his feet.
  At the top of the hill he spotted a 24-hour lab and clinic and decided that may be the safest place to be at the moment. He tucked the computer under his arm and ran down the other side of the hill into the parking lot of the clinic. The parking lot was almost empty. The sign for the clinic was bright white and red and made him feel exposed. But there was the automatic door under the sign reading Immediate Care and he ran towards it.
  Across the marble floor of the lobby his dirty boots squeaked, echoing down the long hallways to his left and right. He had been here before years ago and knew the elevators were down the right hallway. He went that way. This late in the day there was nobody present, not even at the customer service desk. He ran to the elevators and found the door leading to the stairs. Up he went to the second floor and burst through the door. He wasn't sure how far they were behind but didn't want to take a chance.
  Upstairs were the offices for specialists, orthopedic, oncology, ENT, but also the radiology lab. There were a few workers in the hallway, wearing navy blue scrubs, carrying clipboards, pushing carts. People still waiting for test results. One old lady sat unattended in the hallway. She eyed him suspiciously as he brushed past. His frantic energy and disheveled appearance started to draw attention from the employees. They gave significant glances to one other. A receptionist in oncology reached for the phone. He heard the elevator ding and panicked. He darted into the nearest door.
  Once inside he closed the door and held it. The receptionist in the x-ray lab stood up, puzzled.
  "Sir, you can't close that door. It needs to remain open at all times."
  When he faced her she could see he was in no mood to argue. She picked up the phone, pushed a button, and spoke into it, never once breaking eye contact with him. He left the door and ran from the waiting area to the patient area, behind a large wooden door opened with a flat metal button at waist level.
  By now all the workers had been notified an erratic man was in side the building. They stood facing him, unmoving. He pushed through the doorway and went to the corner most room, the x-ray room. Here there was a machine with a platform base and two enormous arms. On the wall nearby was an observation window and a corner where the technician sat. He walked to the observation room. There was a older woman sitting at the computer. She looked up at him through reading glasses, a pen in her hand. Calmly she spoke to him, rising to her feet.
  "Sir, you won't get any drugs here. This is an x-ray lab. Are you sick? We can get you help."
  In his current state of mind it took him a few moments to register what the technician was telling him.
  "Give me your pen."
  "Sir?"
  "I said give me your pen. The one in your hand. I fucking need it. They are coming."
  "Sir, there is nobody here except us. Nobody is coming. I can't give you anything you might hurt yourself or others with. Why don't you follow me into the waiting room?"
  He exploded.
  "Give me the fucking pen you bitch!"
  He pried it from her hand and ran to the far corner of the room. She screamed and ducked under the desk in fear. Others entered the room. When they saw him with the pen they stopped.
  He set the computer on a counter, removed the cell phone from his pocket and found Grady's phone number in the menu using only his left hand. With his right he wrote the number on his arm. He then tossed the phone on the ground and picked up a metal container from the counter. He brought it down hard on the phone repeatedly, smashing it to bits.
  "Angie," one of the men shouted to the technician cowering under the desk, "Security is on the way. Don't worry. They'll be here soon."
  At that moment the man took a look at his surroundings. He saw the workers at the door, frightened but firm. He saw himself, brandishing the technician's pen like a madman. It was like he was in a movie, like he was watching a movie, removed from the danger or the implications of his actions. But at the same time he knew it was reality. At that moment he caught onto what the man had just said, Security is on the way, and understood that it wasn't to protect him from the dark figures who were chasing him. It was to protect all these innocent people from him.
  He then gripped the pen in one hand like a knife, tucked the computer under his other arm, and slashed at the air in front of him, rushing the crowd at the door. They ducked to the corners and he rushed through them into the hallway. He was sure security would be coming up the stairs and went to the platform which overlooked the lobby. It was a good twenty five foot drop.  He heard shouts from down the hallway, shut his eyes momentarily for strength, and heaved himself over the guard rail.
  He landed hard on the marble floor, his ankle twisted, and he collapsed into a ball. It hurt. Really bad. He was dazed but got up anyway and stumbled towards the entrance. Once outside he limped to the back of the facility, where there were no lights. Once in the dark he caught his breath and collected his thoughts and set off towards the library, cursing the stupidity of his injury and limping like a wounded animal.
  By the time he reached the library it was almost seven, which was when the library closed this day of the week. He was tired, sweaty despite the dropping temperature, and hurt. When he entered the library the woman at the front desk reminded him they would be closing soon. He nodded and smiled with as much normality as he could muster and went to the winding stairway that led to the second level where the fiction section was. Once at the top he went to the back, where there was a restroom. He knew this because he used to come here often to pick up books for Suzanne, who was a voracious reader, unlike him.
  In the restroom he washed his face in the sink, looked at himself in the mirror, took a few deep breaths, and then went into the furthest stall at the back. He set the computer on a diaper changing station in the stall and then climbed onto the seat of the toilet, wincing from the pain. And he waited.
  After some minutes, maybe half an hour, the door opened and a listless female voice shouted into the bathroom.
  "Anybody in here? We're closing now."
  The lights went out and then she was gone.
  He waited for another half hour, then got down. His legs were asleep and so he had to shake them for a few minutes. His hurt ankle was starting to swell. He went to the door and opened it just enough to be able to listen. He heard nothing. He came out and walked down the steps into the lobby. Though the main lights were out there were still random small lights on to see by. He walked through the periodicals, through the nonfiction sections, to the back of the building where the computers with internet access were. He walked rows and rows of old books and wondered how long some of them had sat there unread. The smell reminded him of summer days when his mother brought him here.
  When he reached the computer station he found a good spot with a table nearby and set to work. He connected the computer to a power outlet and turned it on. The familiar green login screen appeared, with the pre-filled username, z.jackson. He thought of the newscast he had seen earlier. The woman who had used this computer, which contained some extremely valuable information, was dead. The two fiends who had stolen this computer were also dead, mutilated in fact, and now he was being followed for this computer. He had to figure out how to get into it and learn why it was so valuable. That seemed to him the only way to understand how best to leverage his position. He was no fool.
  He switched on the terminal closest to him and when it booted he did a search on how to bypass the login screen on an Apple computer, crossing his fingers. He was not at all computer savvy but knew there were those out there who were, and he could follow directions as much as any red-blooded American. The very first result gave him what he needed. He rebooted the computer and hit command+r to enter Recovery Mode. Then he selected Utilities->Terminal and when the Terminal opened he typed resetpassword. This launched the Reset Password utility dialog where he was able to select the z.jackson account and change the password. He changed it to 370Price, his old address and rebooted the machine. He was in.
  