
4

  The user interface faded in and a row of application icons popped up from the bottom of the screen. But the most interesting thing was the desktop wallpaper. It seemed to be a faded polaroid taken at a child's birthday party, from the early 80s going by the hairstyles and the clothes they wore. In the middle of the photo was a little girl wearing a pink dress, sitting at a small table in front of a house. She was surrounded by her parents on either side and she was blowing out a candle, which was still lit in this photograph. All around the table were children, clapping their hands, and presumably parents of those children looking on, smiles on their faces.
  Not knowing where to begin he found a folder called Documents and started opening files at random, looking for any clue as to why the computer was so important.

Emails found in the Mail app

From: Richard Dewey
To: Zoey Jackson
CC: Deborah Blankenship
Date: October 28, 2017 7:43 am
Subject: Project Aura
----------------------------------------------------------------

Zoey, it has come to my attention that you have approached several lab subjects with an offer to participate in an unauthorized research project called Aura. I would like to understand the nature of this research, to review any and all documentation you have thus far, and most importantly to get an explanation why you felt no need to notify me or any other manager to get permission use these facilities for your own research (which I remind you belongs to the Andromeda Group, based on section 41-B of the employee contract). Please see me in my office when you arrive and bring along the requested documents. Also your work computer.

Thank you,

Richard Dewey
Director of Operations
Andromeda R&D Southeast

Note: This email has also been CC'd to Deborah Blankenship in HR for records.


From: Zoey Jackson
To: Richard Dewey
Date: October 28, 2017 10:16 am
Subject: Re: Project Aura
----------------------------------------------------------------

On my way.


From: Richard Dewey
To: Zoey Jackson
Date: October 28, 2017 12:46 pm
Subject: Re: Re: Project Aura
----------------------------------------------------------------

I know you are upset but you need to treat this with seriousness. It would be be in your best interest to cooperate with the Andromeda Group in this matter. I say this both as Director and as your friend.


From: Zoey Jackson
To: Richard Dewey
Date: October 28, 2017 2:03 pm
Subject: Re: Re: Re: Project Aura
----------------------------------------------------------------

No friend of mine would spring that kind of meeting on me! Who were those men in the suits? Why did you let them intimidate me like that? You just sat there. So stop talking to me with that condescending corporate speak. You used to be real. I hope you like who you see in the mirror.


From: Richard Dewey
To: Zoey Jackson
Date: October 29, 2017 4:33 pm
Subject: Contract and NDA Signatures
----------------------------------------------------------------

Deborah Blankenship in HR has just informed me that when you were hired in 2016 you erroneously signed your employment contract and non-disclosure/non-compete agreement with the name 'Duck Dodgers'. We are going to need your actual signature on these documents ASAP.


From: Zoey Jackson
To: Richard Dewey
Date: October 29, 2017 6:06 pm
Subject: RE: Contract and NDA Signatures
----------------------------------------------------------------

As I was informed earlier today I am no longer an employee, so I'm not sure why I would sign any documents about my employment now.


From: Richard Dewey
To: Zoey Jackson
Date: October 29, 2017 9:53 pm
Subject: RE: Re: Contract and NDA Signatures
----------------------------------------------------------------

This is your decision but let me be clear, you won't be getting your final paycheck until you comply with our request. There is a clause in your contract regarding this very subject, specifically cooperation during employment transition. Read it over please.


From: Zoey Jackson
To: Richard Dewey
Date: October 29, 2017 9:53 pm
Subject: RE: Re: Re: Contract and NDA Signatures
----------------------------------------------------------------

You mean Duck Dodgers' contract?


From: Richard Dewey
To: Zoey Jackson
Date: October 29, 2017 11:02 pm
Subject: RE: Re: Re: Re: Contract and NDA Signatures
----------------------------------------------------------------

Zoey, this is not some joke! This is serious and you need to treat it that way. The technology you developed is dangerous. I'd like to talk to you about this one on one. No more men in suits. Please call me.


Excerpt from matchchat.txt

ShoelessJoel: Hey pinkhatgirl
ShoelessJoel: Why pink?
PinkHatGirl: hey
PinkHatGirl: umm, because i like pink, and hats
PinkHatGirl: and I’m a girl 😜
ShoelessJoel: And... pink hats?
PinkHatGirl: you catch on fast!
ShoelessJoel: I like red and t-shirts but I don't like red t-shirts.
PinkHatGirl: I’m guessing your name is Joe and you are currently sans podiatric apparel?
PinkHatGirl: nice, I like red though - I bet you’d look good in a red t
ShoelessJoel: sure??? but it's irrelevant....
PinkHatGirl: oh
PinkHatGirl: what is relevant?
ShoelessJoel: Well... why are you in this site?
ShoelessJoel: You don't look like you need a place like this to find people...
PinkHatGirl: for random sex of course
PinkHatGirl: jk!
ShoelessJoel: Ok... you got me there for a second!
PinkHatGirl: but I do need this place, I never meet cool guys
ShoelessJoel: So... what is it? Maybe you don't have any time to socialize in real life?
PinkHatGirl: do you know any?
ShoelessJoel: You're talking to the coolest guy in town!
PinkHatGirl: I thought I might be, the arm tattoo tipped me off
PinkHatGirl: are you kidding I work all the time
ShoelessJoel: If I sound dull it's just 'cause I had a long day at work today...
PinkHatGirl: what are you here for?
PinkHatGirl: oh, what do you do?
ShoelessJoel: I'm just getting my mind off suicidal thoughts...
ShoelessJoel: But I'm fine! talking to you makes it better.
PinkHatGirl: oh no, I hope you’re joking
ShoelessJoel: I work at a shoe factory.... putting pieces together...
ShoelessJoel: It's boring as hell but it pays my livin'
ShoelessJoel: How 'bout you?
PinkHatGirl: hmm
PinkHatGirl: any shoes I might recognize?
PinkHatGirl: I work in a research lab
ShoelessJoel: It's classified...
ShoelessJoel: Cool! Sounds way more interesting than my story
ShoelessJoel: What's it about?
PinkHatGirl: oh really? so is my work but I won’t tell if you won’t
ShoelessJoel: Ladies first! 😜
ShoelessJoel: The factory I work for makes bowling shoes... and tap dancing ones...  weird combo, I know...
PinkHatGirl: this is going to sound ridiculous but I swear it’s real, we’re doing research to experiment how to control software by thoughts
ShoelessJoel: Already?!
ShoelessJoel: Sounds like a sci-fi movie
PinkHatGirl: it’s an honest to goodness field, look up neuroimaging electrophysiology sometime
ShoelessJoel: You look very young... how old are you?
PinkHatGirl: I like bowling
PinkHatGirl: not sure about tapdancing
ShoelessJoel: I like neuroimaging neurophysuiiiology😜
PinkHatGirl: it’s on my profile, 28
PinkHatGirl: haha, it turns on all the boys
ShoelessJoel: Almost 30! You look 20!
PinkHatGirl: it really can be like sci fi
ShoelessJoel: I know... science nerds get us all the time... 🤓🤤
PinkHatGirl: I work on visualizing the neurological data, nevermind it gets dull
ShoelessJoel: Does it work?
ShoelessJoel: I mean... like... it seems like Bs but hey, it's the new age of civilization
PinkHatGirl: it does but not to the level you want, like we can hook up nodes to your head and place you in front of two buttons, red and blue, if you think hard about the blue button are able to see that and trigger the button click
PinkHatGirl: it’s not at all really but I know why you’d say that
ShoelessJoel: Think... hard... trigger... hmmm.. sex!
PinkHatGirl: the group I work for is sponsored by all the big companies, google, amazon, Apple, facebook
PinkHatGirl: not THERE yet I’m afraid!
ShoelessJoel: Heh...jk
PinkHatGirl: bit who knows, one day maybe
ShoelessJoel: But... I would think those companies would fight for it
PinkHatGirl: it’s a consortium, it’s like an open source thing
ShoelessJoel: Like to get the whole thing... sounds like someone will get a lot of money out of it
ShoelessJoel: Aha... open something...
PinkHatGirl: well, I think so too
ShoelessJoel: So.... do you get bored?
ShoelessJoel: Sounds interesting but tiring
PinkHatGirl: we even had the guy who used to be head of cia under president bush come by to see a demonstration
PinkHatGirl: not at all, I love it!
ShoelessJoel: Cia..... oh man... are you kidding me?!
PinkHatGirl: I even work weekends, hence lonely and surfing dating websites
PinkHatGirl: no I’m not, unfortunately
ShoelessJoel: Good for me!
PinkHatGirl: thank you 😊
ShoelessJoel: It sounds like a cool job...
PinkHatGirl: what do you do for fun?
ShoelessJoel: I talk to pretty ladies like you....
PinkHatGirl: it’s very cool, but way too bureaucratic for me
PinkHatGirl: and stuffy
PinkHatGirl: everyone is wearing khakis and blue button downs
ShoelessJoel: Aha... you need more action...
PinkHatGirl: I’m not that pretty!
ShoelessJoel: You are!
PinkHatGirl: thanks
ShoelessJoel: To me, you're gorgeous..m
PinkHatGirl: I do need more action, I want to dance
PinkHatGirl: do you like dancing?
ShoelessJoel: What are you doing tonight?
PinkHatGirl: I’m at the lab
ShoelessJoel: Let's go!
PinkHatGirl: can’t, waiting on test results to compile
PinkHatGirl: but maybe this weekend I could meet up somewhere
ShoelessJoel: Ehhm....
ShoelessJoel: Sure!
PinkHatGirl: for a drink or something, maybe first
PinkHatGirl: then we can talk about dancing
PinkHatGirl: for all I know you’re into square dancing
ShoelessJoel: Sounds good to me
PinkHatGirl: you did mention tap shoes
ShoelessJoel: I make them...not use them 😜
PinkHatGirl: cool, what’s your real name by the way?
ShoelessJoel: I like more electronic music...
ShoelessJoel: Joel.
PinkHatGirl: oh, EDM?
ShoelessJoel: Yours?
PinkHatGirl: I love that shit
PinkHatGirl: listening right now
ShoelessJoel: More like tramp...m
PinkHatGirl: I’m Zoey
PinkHatGirl: nice to meet you Joel
PinkHatGirl: tramp, I don’t know that
ShoelessJoel: Zoey! Good to meet you too.
PinkHatGirl: yes sir
PinkHatGirl: well I need to get going Joel
ShoelessJoel: You'll like it if you're into electronic sounds
ShoelessJoel: Alright Zoey
PinkHatGirl: if you want to text off this site, my number is 706-204-9224
ShoelessJoel: It was cool talking to you.
PinkHatGirl: ok, I’ll check it out
PinkHatGirl: you too!
ShoelessJoel: Sure thubg
ShoelessJoel: Thing
PinkHatGirl: can wait to hear more about your adventures in the shoe factory
PinkHatGirl: 😜
PinkHatGirl: bye!
ShoelessJoel: 😂😂😭😭😭
ShoelessJoel: Bye!

  It was after 1 am when he lifted his eyes from the screen and glanced at the clock on the wall. Outside the glass windows was the glow of amber pole lights and trash and leaves blowing down the sidewalk. He wiped his eyes and went to the water fountain nearby. He splashed some water on his face and then drank a cold sip. Then he walked to the window and looked out and began once again to contemplate the things he had been reading for the last several hours. It still made no sense to him. He still didn't understand what was so important about this computer or have any clue who was after him for it. He was not a computer guy. Understood almost nothing of what he was reading, but despite that he had managed to piece together the beginning of the story.
  Zoey Jackson had worked at this research facility for some private entity named the Andromeda Group, which according to the Wikipedia page he found was 'a consortium of technology giants working towards the future of human-computer interaction'. Zoey wrote software, manipulating image data read from the brain activity, the best he could understand it. She did not fit in here very well. In fact it doesn't seem she would ever have been hired here without her relationship to Richard Dewey, the Director. Even so, she had done something to piss everyone off, and was fired. The firing had everything to do with Project Aura, but what was that? He had gone through all the folders and files and nothing except for those few emails from Richard Dewey mentioned it. But this was her computer. Maybe the Aura Project was a red herring as to why these people were after the computer, but he didn't think so. Something about the email with those 'men in suits'. He had found plenty of power point and word documents, code files which made no sense to him but seemed related to the day to day work of the lab. Everything seemed very much on the up and up. He didn't know of course but it didn't seem right that this would be what they're after, futuristic as it all was to him, it was related to manipulating buttons and form entry with thoughts, just like she told the man in the chat.
  He paced up and down the corridors of books. He felt safe here for the time being. But he did not feel safe. He knew they would find him again. Maybe it would be for the best to get rid of this damn computer. Hide it somewhere, send them a text of the location, and walk away. He was reasonably sure that was an option. But, if he played his cards rights, if he was smart enough to figure out why this machine was so valuable, he might find leverage to turn this whole nightmare into something good for himself. Pay off Rodriguez for good, get a place, then maybe -- Once these thoughts had grabbed hold of his mind they crowded out anything else that spoke against it. And the other big question was who was after him. If he knew that too it could be leverage. Maybe they had money. Maybe they were the sort that wanted to avoid authorities at all costs. But he knew as much about them as he did about this computer. They were invisible.
  He stopped where he was, on the other side of the library, and ran back to the computer. He had remembered a moment from high school, to a computer class he had taken one semester. He had accidentally erased a report he was writing about the Etowah Indian Mounds field trip, but when he told his teacher in panic she smiles and told him there was probably a backup in the hidden files. Hidden files and folders which were not visible by default on the file system. You had to enter special commands or enable certain options to see them. And when she enabled it for him, he found the backup of his lost report. 
  At the computer he did a search how to see invisible files and folders on an Apple computer, and followed the step by step instructions to turn it on using Finder. And then started at the top-most directory he could find, from the Macintosh HD drive and went through them again, looking for anything he could have missed. After another couple hours of looking he found it.
  Buried inside the directory logs->old->backup he found a hidden folder called p.aura. He opened it and found dozens of files. At the top was a file called log.txt. He opened that first.
  
Excerpt from log.txt
  
The neanderthals who discovered fire would not have understood the complex chemical reactions which lead to combustion, but importantly that didn't prevent them from harnessing its power for the benefit of all humanity. - An Analysis of Anthropologic History

Confirmed: I walk through a corn field, somewhere in Ohio? Blue sky. Dried, yellow stalks. I am a child, can't see where I'm going. It's a maze. I'm not supposed to be here. I stumble into a spider web. I panic and fall to the ground and look at the spider in the center of the web. Its enormous. Beautiful patterns on its torso.

Confirmed: My sister and I walk up a large hill next to a road. The hill is covered with trees. We push up a small pink bike, with sparkly tassels, hers. At the top we both get on and ride down together. We go really fast! So much fun!

Confirmed: Sitting on my mother's lap, near a vanity a mirror, reflecting us. The room is yellow. She is reading a letter from my father, he left us. I ask her, 'Is our heart broken?'

Confirmed: At the back of a backyard is a fence. Beyond the fence is a field. A yellow horse grazes there. Named Dusty. She crawls through the fence wires one day, not supposed to go there. Horse chases her. She runs, terrified, to the woods beyond the field. Finds a lake.

Confirmed: At the skating rink, Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, the lights in a star pattern on the ceiling, mother working the concession stand, nacho cheese dip crusty on top, boy with spiked hair, she pinches his butt as he skates by. Eye contact.

Confirmed: A dog, a white house, a man in camo shorts grilling burgers with a beer in hand, a screened-in backporch, a small yard, torn badminton set, trash cans out by a chainlink fence. Rubbing the dogs belly. Sun setting behind the trees.
  
Modified the device harness to be more user friendly. Now the boys in the lab will never find it. I need more test subjects. Was unable to reach Shiela today.

I'm having a hard time thinking about my day to day. It seems pointless now. But I can't work on the project when they are around. Only weekends for now. But I have a codename for it. Aura. I like it. And it suits the experience. My subject, Shiela I'll call her here, is getting a little anxious with my experiments. It doesn't harm her but she says she doesn't like the idea of it. Today I let her try the device on me, since I wanted to experience it from the other side also. She got sick too and that's when she started to complain. After I took her to lunch at the Cracker Barrel and explained that eventually it will be a two-way thing, like a telephone call, and that it doesn't really make sense without that component. She saw through my pie-in-the-sky ruminations though. She said, 'The US military would think it makes sense'. I have been avoiding facing that conclusion, but she's right.
  
Eureka! Over the weekend I found a willing subject to help me test the device. She's an older lady who collects cans along the route I take to get here in the morning. I see her all the time. I stopped and offered her fifty dollars and McDonald's to let me run her through some tests in the lab and she agreed. Tests good so far. Doesn't use too much power. Was able to receive clear visualization and impressions. Subject reported no awareness when device was transmitting. After I became very sick. Need to keep a bucket nearby in the future. For this reason had to cut session short. But it works! But there is some secret sauce that happens once everything is in place that I can't yet explain. Yet. This is all exciting but a little scary too. I don't want to show anyone here in the lab. I don't feel like they'd understand what it needs to be. Maybe its just me.

I built something and need to test it out. Hence this log, to keep track of progress, because I can be a bit of an absent-minded professor, and I don't want to forget something important. So hello future Zoey! I got the idea on a Friday night, after an all-day coding session, writing a script to aggregate image data from the pipeline. We already have one, that Stephen wrote, but its buggy and slow. I fell asleep at my desk listening to Eno. And in my dream I saw this device, something like the node contraption we use on our human lab rats, but it worked in reverse, instead of reading and interpreting it projects and opens a channel to another brainwave. When I woke up I started to think about how to implement something like it. To capture and send a wireless transmission of the aggregated signal is nothing special. Off the shelf wireless transmitting technology can do it, coupled with the systems we already have in place. And custom software of course. But now I need to sleep...zzz

 This had to be it. He read in the log and started to get a picture of things, though still vague. There was a device apparently, but it was not in the bag. He checked the pockets again to make sure. There was a folder called videos filled with recordings of the test sessions, both subject and object, as they were labeled in the filename. He opened one and saw Zoey wearing a pink knit toboggan with little cat ears. She was staring straight ahead and looked something like a zombie, not completely there. A few minutes later she startled and immediately vomited into a bucket on the floor. And then broke into a giddy laugh and raised both arms in a gesture of triumph. He also found an executable file called simply aura and clicked on it. A dialog box popped up with the message,
 
Please connect device
  