
5

  Then he slept. Two hours later the alarm he set went off and he packed the computer into its bag and walked outside through the emergency exit in the back. An alarm buzzed loudly inside the building, his heart jumped and he quickened his pace. It was cold and his breath visible in front of him. The tips of his ears stung by the time he reached the parking lot. He got in and let the truck run idle for a few minutes before driving off. Only after he turned onto Broad Street did he switch on the headlights. By now it was 5 am.
  He drove Highway 27 out of the city. There was no other traffic on the road but soon a semi came over the hill and blinded him with its high beams. He turned on his own high beams and flipped the driver off with a snarl.
  "Fuck you too buddy!"
  He turned left at the Coca Cola Bottling Plant and passed a sign that read Riverside Industrial Park. Lucky for him several of the pole lights were busted. He switched off his headlights and drove in the dark, able to see dimly by the pale moon over the trees. He passed the Old Fashioned Bakery Distribution center and saw a line of white trucks, drivers sleeping in the seats. Nobody around to see him. Nobody who cared anyway.
  It was obvious he had reached the research facility when he saw the bands of yellow tape across the entranceway and all around the perimeter. He drove past and nearby found a small culdesac almost completely obscured by the woods. He pulled in and parked. He fished out a flashlight and put on the backpack with the computer and set off through the woods towards the facility.
  He brushed aside limbs only to have them lash back into his head and torso. He gazed up and saw the sky had become gray with morning and he knew he didn't have as much time as he would have liked. He figured the earliest any investigators would arrive would be after 9 but wanted to be long gone by then. With luck he would be.
  Soon he emerged from the woods and saw the vast black shape of  the facility looming overhead. Doors on every side were sealed with particle board, nailed around the edges. He would rather been have subtle about this but there was no time for that. He picked up a heavy log near the edge of the woods and heaved it through a un-barricaded window on the rear of the building. It shattered into large shards which fell inward.
  With two hands on the lip of the window he pulled himself up and through, brushing against the jagged edge of the window remains. It pierced his shoulder and he winced but didn't make a sound. He came down hard inside an office. This particular office was not damaged. He went into the hallway and saw things were similar here. No fire damage. No signs of an explosion. He entered the lobby and saw the fragments of glass from the front door glass Grady and Jenn had shattered on the night.
  Several times he stopped mid-walk and stopped breathing. He listened at those moments, wanting to make sure he was still alone in the building. He was keeping a mental map of his path through the darkness, in case he had to make a quick escape. The offices on this level were definitely management, bookkeeping, HR, and not the research teams he was searching for. There were steps leading to the second floor. Here he could see indications of the explosion, random debris, charred drywall, bits of concrete, the walls scorched in places, the paint bubbled, peeling in spots. He went up.
  On the second floor he saw more destruction. This had to be the origin of the explosion. The floor seemed to have been cubicles, decimated now, the walls blackened and scattered here and there. Flat panel monitors poked through the rubble of papers and concrete. He saw the remains of office chairs, whiteboards, picture frames of cute kids. He took a brief look into the next section and saw the lab. It had been a wide open area with stations with computers, destroyed now.
  This was ground zero. This must have been the place where Zoey had run the Aura experiments. If Grady and Jenn had stolen the computer from here, then the device had to be here too, if it were not destroyed. Which it likely was. But he found himself fed by a compulsion he could not really explain, risking being found here, risking being discovered by those dark figures. It seemed worth it to him. He rummaged through the ruins, looking for any sign of Zoey's cubicle. Once he found the proximity of her desk he knew he would find more. 
  One small but important detail he had noticed in the videos he watched. They were not recorded in the lab. They were definitely at her cubicle. He even remembered the number, 21, visible on a plastic card in the background. He looked for anything.
  Outside the sun was shining through the trees, the sky an gray-orange color. Unfortunately he didn't have his phone to see the time, but he knew it was something like 6:30 am. 
  He was rummaging through a pile of rubble when he found a curious picture frame. The picture inside was burned but he could make out what it used to be. It was the same photo as the background of Zoey's computer. The old, faded polaroid of a birthday party in front of a house. He had found her cubicle. With this he quickened his pace, throwing boards and pieces of char through the air, looking for anything like the device. It seemed hopeless. Nothing he found seemed related to a device or Project Aura, or anything else of note. He found pens, staplers, a calendar of kittens, with no information of course. He found bent and burned remains of a small file cabinet. The door to it was locked but he was able to pry it open.
  The first thing that caught his eye was the pink hat with kitten ears, the same one he had seen Zoey wearing in the videos. So this was her cubicle after all. He went through the rest of the contents, cups of ramen, packets of chai, an empty binder, an instruction manual to a printer. Nothing that resembled a device. And that was it. He kept going through the rubble but found nothing of interest. He did find some cables and grew hopeful but it turned out to be for a monitor.
  By now it was past seven. Maybe even closer to eight. He knew there could be investigators, police showing up anytime. So he stopped, reluctantly, and headed downstairs. When he entered the lobby, however, he noticed something he hadn't seen before. There on the wall was a photograph of everyone, he assumed. They were standing outside the facility, on a sunny day, squinting a a crowd. All wearing the same blue Andromeda Group t-shirt. Everyone wore the t-shirt except for the girl in the back. She had on an army jacket, jeans, and a knitted pink hat with kitten ears. He looked at her face, bored, aloof, even contemptuous. And then something from the log file came back to him, "I hid the device somewhere the boys in the office will never find it." There were several women in this group photo. So her saying "boys" in that way seemed significant all of a sudden.
  Back upstairs the sun was coming into the large window towards the rear of the building. He went directly to the spot where he had found the cabinet and fished out the pink hat. It was dirty but unharmed in the explosion. Being in the cabinet had surely saved it. He folded it inside out and saw a multitude of wires and nodes.
  
  He started the pickup and let it warm up. Then he pulled out of the culdesac and left the industrial park from the other side, out Eden Valley road. It was that time of the morning, commuter traffic. He passed cars and got caught behind a school bus. He grew impatient and zoomed around the other cars, nearly ran over a pack of school kids.
  Once over the mountain he got back on the main road, headed back into town. He couldn't avoid the traffic here so just rode it out. In his mind he made plans to get another place, a hotel he knew up in Adairsville. Nobody would find him there. Then he'd have all the time he needed to examine the device and see if it still worked, and hopefully figure out how much it was worth to those guys.
  As he worked it all out he saw a car coming up on his rear. It was an old Buick, boxy-shaped. He tensed up on the steering wheel and watched them out his rearview mirror. One of the men leaned out the window and pointed a gun. It happened so fast it was like a dream. He swerved into the other lane as the shot went off. But of course the Buick just got behind him again.
  He floored the old 350 engine and his truck pulled ahead. He weaved around several cars, attempting to get out of the line of sight. One car honked at him for the reckless driving and he honked right back at them.
  Not having much time to think he just kept driving, staying on the main road. His hope was maybe a patrol car would be watching from the median. If he saw one he'd stop and get help. But he saw nothing. The Buick was approaching fast, weaving in and out of the other cars on the road like they were utterly still. As they came around a curve where the road split, one going up 411 towards Cartersville, the other into the city proper, he swerved  at the last minute and took 411. A nearby SUV honked furiously as it had to slow down to let him over. The Buick saw too late and slammed on its brakes, but there was too much traffic for it to take the turn. It kept going.
  He took 411 to the bypass to the bypass and turned left, driving past the car dealerships and the minor league baseball stadium. This would lead him into town the back way. He turned near the Board of Education offices, through an old mill village where all the houses were made of red brick. But as he went through a little roundabout he saw the same Buick appear from the other side. It swerved in front of another car, which had to stop completely, and came up on him going at least fifty.
  "Jesus Christ!"
  He hammered on the gas and a block later went over a speed bump at a crosswalk too fast. The bounce jolted him out of his seat and his head hit the roof of the car, his vision flashed. the backpack with the computer and device landed on the floorboard. But he kept going. He looked behind and saw the Buick slow down to avoid the bump. But immediately speed up.
  Nearby there was a small park with a baseball field. He used to hang out at this park with his friends when he was a teenager so he knew there was a way out of the subdivision behind that park and figured he could make it in his pickup through the park and up the small hill whereas that old Buick might not. So without much hesitation he swerved to the right and went down the grass slope into the park, tearing up clods of mud and blowing leaves into the air. He went through the swing sets and the seats and chain banged against the windshield but did not crack it. In the rearview he didn't see the Buick at all and kept going until he reached the small hill where the small road joined. The pickup swerved up the hill and he nearly lost traction in the mud, but he had enough acceleration and came down over the curb onto the road. Nobody followed him. The road in front of him and behind him was empty. Quiet. He drove the speed limit, hearing bits of mud rattle in the wheel well as they spun from the tires. He let out a breath and tried to think things through.
  The plan now was to get somewhere safe and take a closer look at this device, make sure its still working properly. Then if it was working, he'd buy a burner from Walmart and text Grady's number to see if they wanted to make a deal. And they'd sure as shit have to pay.
  He wondered how exactly they were able to track him down this time and the only thing he could figure was they had marked his pickup somehow. He guessed it wouldn't be that hard, assuming you had the manpower to post lookouts on the roads into and out of the city. This rusted piece of shit was distinct enough. The thought made him nervous. He had to ditch it.
  Turning onto North Broad he went down a dilapidated section of town. In the parking lot of a Baptist church with large slate panels he parked, near the back, behind the air conditioner units and not visible from the road. He grabbed the backpack from the floorboard and stuffed the flashlight in his pocket, as well as a pair of work gloves, and then hoofed it up a hill to the neighborhood which ran parallel to the main road.
  Low gray clouds moved overhead, a chilly wind blew through the limbs of the oak trees which grew between the homes here. He put on the backpack and buttoned his jacked, stuffing his hands in the pockets and made his way through the neighborhood's back roads in the general direction of downtown. There was another hotel he knew of, cheap weekly rates. He could hole up there for awhile. He had cash enough for that. Then there was the problem of a vehicle, but he would think about that later.
  His ears and nose and lips started to freeze. His eyes watered. He could even feel the cold seeping through his jeans. He removed his hands from his pockets and rubbed the extremities but the warmth was only temporary. He was also hungry. Tired. Despite this he picked up the pace. He had never been on these roads or even in this neighborhood but knew it had to join up with Turner McCall at some point. He could walk behind the businesses and hotels until he was in a safer area.
  Half an hour later he was surrounded by the smells of fast food joints, piping the smells out of vents to lure customers. Smells of burgers, fried chicken, barbecue. His stomach twisted and he felt a burning sensation. He spotted a local coffee shop and decided to duck in. They were well known for good coffee and damn good country ham biscuits. He walked up, turned to make sure nobody was looking at him, no boxy Buicks, and went inside.
  This time of day was the time when all the college students came here before class, studying, talking. Hung on the walls were bad pencil drawings of celebrities, bright, colorful folk art in shapes like fish, cows, farm equipment. In the back was a vintage coffee bean roaster. The music they played inside was classic Americana, Elvis, Buddy Holly, Roy Orbison. He wandered to the counter, looking for a good, hidden place to sit. The place was full of patrons.
  "What can I get for you today, sir?"
  He turned to face the woman at the register, her bright purple hair done up in a bun, smiling at him.
  "Coffee with milk,"
  But then he noticed her smile turn into wide-eyed horror. She screamed and ducked. He had just enough time to turn and see two figures, dressed in dark coats, standing in the doorway, guns drawn and pointed in his direction. He ran for the other side of the shop, to the other entrance, ducking behind a table. By now everyone in the place had seen the two men with guns and started screaming, some running for the exit, some hiding under the tables. Shots rang out. Wood splintered on the table near him. He heard shouting and took the chance to run for the door. 
  He was outside. The backpack slowed him down somewhat, its weight moving against his stride, but he pumped his feet as fast as possible and turned the corner and ran up some stone steps to a row of lawyer's offices. Behind him he heard shots and screams, running on the sidewalk. He didn't look back. Beyond the row of offices was a chainlink fence. He hopped that and found himself in a leaf-strewn alley behind several buildings. Between them he found three or four large city-provided garbage cans with yellow lids. He lifted one of the lids and smelled the sour, rotten garbage inside. He quickly reached in and tossed the bags into both the other bins until it was empty, and then got inside. The backpack snagged on the lip so he quickly removed it and held it between his legs. He closed the lid. He waited, breathing in the smell, wanting to throw up from the smell, hoping they would not find him.
  From inside the can he could hear nothing, only traffic sounds distant, a squirrel running through the leaves. There were no more shouts or gunfire. No heavy footsteps in this direction. The air inside was suffocating, several times he retched uncontrollably but still waited. It might have been half an hour later when he emerged, lifting the lid slowly, breathing in the clean air. He got out.
  He walked to a place where he could see the parking lot next to the coffee shop. Several police cars were there, blue lights flashing, an ambulance. People standing around, looking concerned. Cars pulling in and out, taking photos. He turned and walked the other way, keeping behind the buildings, hoping nobody would spot him that could recognize him from the coffee shop. He walked until he came to the river, the same path he had taken the previous day from the library. He walked the path beside the river until he was near downtown. There was a small open area where the city's pontoon boat was moored. He sat down on the bench here and waited longer, collecting his thoughts. Once again the smell of food filled his nostrils and his stomach lurched. There was a Waffle House up on the hill. He talked himself into attempting it, his reason being the all-glass front of the Waffle House would make it difficult for his pursuers to sneak up on him, and that he knew the layout of the back kitchen of these places, had a buddy that used to work there, and knew he could easily escape out the back if it came down to it. Even if that was all bullshit he was telling to convince himself, he needed food.
  Towards the back he found an empty booth and sat facing the door. A waitress came by a couple minutes later and set down a coffee with milk. He said thank you and then asked her for something to eat.
  "Pecan waffle and a side of bacon."
  "You got it, hon."
  He drank the coffee and when the food came he scarfed it down quickly, and ordered seconds. Then scarfed those down. He felt much better after eating, felt his mind getting clearer. For the first time in awhile he started to relax. Maybe the event at the coffee shop had scared those guys off. With the police getting involved. He thought about getting out there again, walking to the extended stay, but it felt good to sit here, in the warmth, with a full belly.
  Instead he unzipped the backpack and pulled out the computer. He set it on the table in front of him and turned it on. Then he pulled out the knitted pink hat, the device, and found the black USB cable which came out the back of it, and plugged it in. It occurred to him then this was something like a moment of truth and he tensed up. He found the directory p.aura just like before and started up the program. It took a few seconds but then a dialog with a progress bar appeared and a few seconds after that it was complete and the application window appeared. At the bottom of the window was a small indicator with a message in green letters,

Device is Ready
  