
6

  To him it was like being transported to the bottom of the ocean. He was on the floor of some undisturbed plain submerged in a viscous fluid. Yet he was also still in the booth in the Waffle House, he was still sitting down, or maybe he wasn't in the Waffle House at all. It was hard to tell. At first he could see nothing. Everything was dark, even sound had gone silent. But very slowly, extremely slowly it was not dark anymore. But was not light either. And the sounds returned but very far away, really as if he were at the bottom of the ocean and listening to conversations miles above. He could not recognize his surroundings. Perhaps he was somewhere else. It could be the ocean of another planet, one of the planets of Jupiter maybe. That was as reasonable as anything else. As his vision became accustomed to the fluid he saw shapes coming into and going out of focus. The shapes themselves wavered, as if they were also made of this same viscous fluid. It was all the same somehow. He looked down at his arms and saw two dark and unfamiliar shapes that could have been his arms, might have been, but he didn't recognize them as his own limbs. They did not seem to belong to him at all and moved of their own accord, imperceptibly slow.
  He was not afraid. Nothing about it made him afraid. In fact there was a part of him, somewhere in his brain, that might have even recognized this place. It felt familiar though completely alien to his forty years on Earth. Time passed. Or maybe it didn't. That too seemed connected to the viscosity of everything else. The only indication he had that things were changing was that his eyes were becoming more and more accustomed to this way of seeing. It was getting brighter but with no discernible source of light. The dark amoeba-like shapes around him began to take on more solid form. The sounds which had been miles away were closer now. Not very close and still the effect was like listening to something underwater, but they grew louder and louder. So time was passing though very slowly. As the shapes came into focus he began to imagine what sort of creatures they might become when they did fully form. Imagine if he had been taken to some strange planet. But even fearful thoughts like this were automatic and he did not take them seriously.
  Hours passed. He never became tired or irritable. Never needed to use the bathroom. He was completely at ease just to observe his surroundings. By now he knew where he was. Still in the booth at the Waffle House. He had been all along. The dark shapes he saw floating in the fluid were patrons, the waitress approaching him with a pot of coffee, the line cook flipping a patty melt. By now the light was nearly back to normal, though dimmed, much like the light during a solar eclipse. The sounds too were back to normal with just a bit of reverberation. But the strange thing was that time had not yet caught up to the light and the sound.
  The waitress he had recognized, his waitress, bringing the pot of coffee, had been walking towards him now for hours. The line cook had been flipping the same patty melt for the same duration. Time itself was viscous but just like his eyes and ears had become accustomed to the change so too was his experience of time catching up though it was taking much longer. An overweight woman sitting with two other women two booths in front of him had been sinking her teeth into the same cheeseburger the whole time. It was fascinating to watch. Time was passing so if he watched a particular place for awhile he could see minute changes. The look in the woman's eyes kept grabbing his attention. He thought she was about to break into a laugh the way her eyes were squinting, cheeks rising. His waitress, whose name was Ann as he could read on her name tag, had tired, forlorn eyes. Her mind was elsewhere. This was the face he kept returning to. Everyone else he observed seemed in this moment, except for Ann.
  Funny things started to happen once time had caught up to his normal experience. The dimness never went away and the sounds still came from underwater, but just as time seemed to catch back up, he started noticing the people in the Waffle House. They looked different. He hadn't noticed exactly when it happened. At first he thought maybe the light was changing yet again. But no. The best way he could make sense of it was that the people, and just the people, were more transparent than they had been before. Transparent wasn't the right word. He couldn't see through their bodies in any way. He thought maybe the word he was looking for was dimension. They were more dimensional than before. He could see further into them. Further than three dimensions anyway. But only when he focused and _really_ looked at them.
  What did he see when he looked at Ann? He saw that her mind was on her husband, who had recently been diagnosed with early-stage dementia. He also had a history of gambling and used to make trips to Pearl River Casino and lie about it, telling his wife they were business trips. So he had went through all their savings, took out second and third mortgages, and accrued hundreds of thousands dollars of debt, just when they were both about to retire. So she had to get work. She worked for the state for thirty years but they wouldn't hire her now due to cutbacks. So she took this job waitressing, just to make enough money to pay their mortgages and now the doctors say he'll only get worse and worse and she'll end up taking care of him one day as if he were just a baby and then he'll die and she'll be alone for the rest of her life.
  "Let me fill that up for you, hon."
  She filled his coffee. He looked at her, rubbing his eyes. She caught his eyes and grinned.
  "I sure do like that hat."
  His eyes went to the woman who was biting into her cheeseburger. She was laughing now, the woman sitting next to her was pointing at him, at the pink hat he wore, and they both sniggered and tried to hide the fact when they saw him staring.
  At the bar he saw a character. A young man, fat and balding but whose curly hair went around his crown like a doughnut. Something repulsive about him. He was shoveling in a western omelette with sausage links and coffee. He sat alone, slouched over his plate, frowning. As he looked closer he could tell the man was counting money. Six hundred from yesterday plus the thousand from this weekend, added with what they had already saved made just about ten thousand. He found if he looked closer he could learn more about the man, from the thoughts he could go deeper and explore the memories those thoughts were connected to. Jody, his name. And then saw a young Latina woman, pregnant. She had a bruised face, bruised back where he had beaten her many times. But why? Because he forced her to have sex with strange men in a nearby motel. He had brought her to the United States, promising a future life, a husband, children. Lies he told her. But he was making a lot of money. Planning to move to Florida. Buy a fishing boat, start a business. He was very close to having enough for the down payments but was concerned, afraid even, of getting caught. He wouldn't be able to handle prison. He had started to take Xanax to deal with the stress of dealing with her. Bitch that she was. Ungrateful for the life he was planning for them both. Why was she putting him through this stress? He looked closer and saw the room numbers, 104 and 110. 104 is where they met with the johns. 110 was where they stayed and where the money was, hidden in a gash in the bottom of the mattress.
    At that moment the young man pulled a cell phone from his jacket pocket and looked at a text message. Then he stood and went to the register, paid for his food, and burped as he stood there waiting to sign the receipt. Then he walked out the exit.
    He pulled the device from his head and immediately felt vertigo, like he were falling off a tall building. He caught himself on the table and booth and yelled in a panic. Everyone turned around. But their looks went unnoticed because he next felt an intense wave of nausea come over him. He nearly vomited on the table but managed to hold it in and ran into the bathrooms and collapsed over a toilet just in time. His entire breakfast came up. When he stood he felt dizzy and heavy-headed. He went back to his booth and saw the young man outside, waiting for the light to cross the street. He quickly stuffed the computer and device into the backpack and stumbled through the exit to follow him.
His skin pale, clammy, his stomach weak, several times he had to stop and place both hands on his knees and nearly vomited on the sidewalk, drooling from his mouth onto his boots. His vision was still blurry so he was glad to at least know where Jody was headed. He even knew what room number. Still, he wanted to keep close if only to verify that the things he had seen were true. He waited for the light to change for pedestrian traffic and then crossed to the other side. Jody was straight ahead, nobody else on the sidewalk but he was far enough away that he would never suspect anything even if he did turn around. They arrived at the Super 8 and he held back, walking the perimeter to find a spot where he could stake out the rooms without being seen.
  He found a wooden fence separating this parking lot from the one just over, another hotel and a spot where one of the boards had come loose. He ducked between it and crouched. From here he could see room 110 and part of 104. At the moment the door to 110 was partway open. In a few minutes Jody emerged and stood outside the door, one leg propped up on the wall. He pulled a vape pen from his pocket and held it up to his mouth, concealed. Massive clouds of vapor billowed into the parking lot. A few minutes after that he saw a young Latina woman wearing tight jean shorts and a white tank top walk from room 104. When Jody saw her he straightened up and stood by looking around as she walked inside 110. He followed her inside and slammed the door.
  He had seen a few things. One thing he had seen was that Jody, being paranoid, had left an extra room key stuffed inside the gap in the door trim, at the top. This was in case he was out and the woman needed to get out of 104 for any reason. That was the protocol. Only business in 104. No lingering there. The other thing was that tonight was the night when he hung out with some of his other friends, down at the pool hall, for beers and to watch the game.
  Around 3pm a Ford Mustang pulled up and honked twice. A minute later Jody emerged, wearing a bright yellow jersey, but instead of numbers it had a frightening clown face. His face also was painted black and yellow, also like a clown. He got into the car and it whipped around in reverse and peeled out of the parking lot.
  He waited a little while longer and approached room 110. In his hand he carried a brick he found near the fence, just in case he needed to defend himself. Above the door he found the extra key card and put it into the slot. The light turned green and he flung the door open, remaining outside in case the woman had a weapon. Nothing. He went into the room and shut the door. Nobody was there, but the door to the bathroom was closed. The room was a disaster. Clothes were scattered everywhere, hanging on the dresser, on the mirror, black lace bras and panties, a faux leather skirt, shorts, shoes in the corner. A carton of condoms and tissue boxes on the nightstand. Empty two liter bottles of Faygo soda in an overflowing trash can, pizza boxes stuffed behind it. 
  From the things he had seen before he knew exactly where to look for the money. With both hands he flipped the large mattress on its side on the floor beside the bed. The gash was there. He reached in a pulled out several dollar rolls. There were ten total so he figured a thousand in each. He stuffed them into the backpack slung it across his shoulder. But as he began to walk out again he looked back at the bathroom door and saw that it was now cracked open, a single eye peering out.
  He approached the door.
  "I'm not going to hurt you."
  The door shut as he came closer and he heard noises inside. When he reached the door he placed his hand on the knob and twisted. It was not locked.
  Inside on the tile floor, he saw the Latina woman, unclothed, her arms twisted up behind her back, handcuffed to an exposed pipe under the sink. She was not facing him, her back was bruised purple and green, but when she heard the door open she twisted her neck around and when she saw it was a stranger she started screaming. Then a small child, a girl, ran up to her and put her arm around the woman's neck and eyed him as if she were her protector, warning him to be careful.
  He backed away. The girl also had bruises on her arms and cheek. Her hair was unwashed. Clothes covered in old food stains.
  "My mom is hurt."
  He said nothing.
  "She needs a doctor. Are you a doctor?"
  "No."
  "Then you can't help her."
  She let go of her mother and reached out and shut the door on him. He stood for a few moments and then went to the door to the parking lot. He took one more glance around the room and walked outside.
  Jody stood there. He was much taller and stared down at him, his eyes narrowed, his expression hard, still in the clown makeup. He felt something on his chest, the point of a knife.
  "Get inside."
  The blade dug into his chest.
  He inched backwards into the room. Jody followed and shut the door behind them. The knife continued to press him back until his legs hit the edge of the bed and he sat down on it. Jody stood over him, looking at him. Then Jody went to the mattress and stuck his hand into the gash. He pulled out nothing and suddenly flew at him.
  "Where the fuck is my money you goddamn thief? You piece of human shit! You fuck!"
  Jody kicked him hard in the shins. And then stomped around the room, fuming, his chest expanding, arms flexing as if he were ready to explode.
  "In my backpack."
  Jody snatched the backpack off his shoulders and rummaged through it. He dumped the computer, the device, everything onto the box spring. The rolls of money came out too, bounced. He picked up the rolls one by one and counted them.
  Jody had stopped fuming and now just stared at him.
  At that point the door to the bathroom opened and the girl ran out. Everyone turned to her.
  "Daddy, momma's hurt. She told me she needs a doctor."
  Jody frowned at her.
  "Go back to the bathroom, sweetie. Daddy's working."
  The girl returned to the bathroom, looking from her father to the man on the bed to the mattress on its side. She closed the door once inside again.
  "Let me tell you why you're gonna give me that ten thousand."
  Jody leaned in close to him and looked curious.
  "Why?"
  The man looked at him.
  "Because you don't want anybody to know about your business in this room and room 104. That would be very bad for you."
  Jody stood up again, eyes widening.
  "Because I need money. I got debts. So the deal is you give me that money, and I walk away forever. And nobody finds out about your business here."
  Jody nodded and pulled out his knife.
  "There's another option, can you guess what that would be?"
  "You could kill me and dump the body in the river, or somewhere hidden."
  "That would be a hell of a lot better deal for me."
  The man stared.
  "Sure would be. But you won't do that."
  "Why not?"
  "Because you're a coward."
  Jody rushed in again and got right in his face. He held the knife to his neck, the blade on his jugular.
  "You frontin, motherfucker? You ain't go no idea what I'm about! Ask my boy Trey, ask Nick Wallace. You think you hard?"
  He stared Jody in the eye and saw all the same things he had seen in him earlier, in the Waffle House. Then he closed his eyes and imagined that he would die at this moment and discovered that he truly did not care. He let go of all the waste his life had become, of the things he had held out hope for, to get back again. And it was freeing. A sense of freedom was in that. So he embraced it. And it really was a shock to him when Jody folded and handed him the ten thousand and gave him back his bag and the computer and device. And he was in a sort of unreal state of not being fully present when he back out of the door into the parking lot and walked onto the sidewalk beside the traffic. He only felt himself again after walking a few blocks and started to think about the money in the backpack and that he should pay off Rodriguez in Kennesaw as soon as he could but that he needed a car to do that.
  