
7

  Along the sidewalk beside Shorter Avenue he went, unsure where he was going or what he was looking for exactly. Yet something like a plan was slowly growing in his mind. He had ten thousand, which was about half of what he owed to Rodriguez. This would buy him time no doubt but he would still be in debt. Yet when it had occurred to him that he needed a car to get to Kennesaw where Rodriguez did business, it also occurred to him that if he were to hijack a car worth some money, drive it there, and hand the keys along with the cash to Rodriguez, that might be enough to clear his debts. There were some details to work out, but the important thing was he knew Rodriguez and his crew were known to deal with lifted vehicles, from time to time. And if not, at least he would know where it could be unloaded without drawing suspicion and before the police in that area were looking for a vehicle with that description. The only thing was he had to get out of the city without drawing attention. Assuming he took the backroads into Kingston, he could reach Cartersville, then 75 without even seeing any cops. That it was close to five worked in his benefit, since there would be a lot of traffic on the roads for distraction.
  He crossed the road, stopping in the turning lane to wait for a break in the line of cars. When he reached the other side he went into a Tom Thumb and got a coffee, hot dog, and a pac of Marlboro Lights. He hadn't smoked in hours and was feeling the jitters all of a sudden. As he stood around back of the gas station he saw a gravel parking lot full of cars. Most of them old pickups, old sedans, but there was one that stood out. It looked like a brand new Toyota Tacoma pickup, 4x4, ruby red paint. That truck is worth at least thirty thousand, he thought, and imagined the respect he'd get from Rodriguez if he handed over the keys to that bad boy, along with the ten thousand in cash. After he finished his coffee and hot dog, he smoked while he scoped out the area.
  The parking lot adjoined a garage for big trucks, a big blue building with a huge sliding door for an entrance. From here he could see all of them inside, one leaning over the engine bay of some school bus, one wrenching underneath a cabover, the others on break outside, smoking, bullshitting. One guy remained in the office but came out eventually and hollered for one of the mechanics.
  He stubbed out his cigarette and walked over to a hidden spot underneath a tree with some bushes. He knelt low and hooked up the device to the computer. It occurred to him that he might be able to leave the computer on in the bag, with the USB cable connected to the device. This would allow him to wear the device while the software was running on the computer in the backpack on his back. He changed the setting that turned the computer off when the clamshell was closed. He then started up the program and put on the device.
  Once again he was transported to the bottom of the ocean but it seemed less intense this time - the visual, auditory, and time drag, all took less time to return to normal. It felt to him like his body was becoming accustomed to the weird transition. So again he found himself looking out at a dim world where things were nearly the same but not quite. He looked at the mechanics in the shop and saw they also had that same kind of extra dimensionality as those people in the Waffle House.
  One by one he looked closer at them, this time concentrating on the thing he wanted to know. Which car was theirs, where were the keys, and were there any hidden in the cars themselves, to make his plan easier to pull off. And he found that he could see that information. _Seeing_ was the wrong word but there is no word for the exact experience, though _knowing_ might be closer. 
  The mechanics drove the cars and trucks he was not interested in. But the manager, the pencil pusher who stayed in the wood-paneled office most of the time, when he came out and he focused on him, he saw the whole thing. First laying eyes on it at dealership on a Sunday evening, going for a test drive that next day, talking to the credit union about a loan, getting fucked over on the trade-in for the his old Mitsubishi Montero Sport, but doing it anyway because he was so excited, signing the paperwork and driving off with it that same day. He saw him wash and wax it and wipe it dry with a microfiber cloth. And then he saw him buy a magnetic key holder and put the spare inside it, and then place the holder under the passenger wheel well, on the frame, hidden from all thieves.
  He removed the device and once again felt the nausea, enough to make him vomit up the hot dog and coffee from earlier, but again not quite as intense as before. And he guessed the more he used it the less nauseous he would be after, until he was no longer nauseous at all. Recovered, he placed the device in the backpack and waited until everyone in the garage seemed occupied. When they were he crept across the road and knelt inside a drainage ditch. Then on hands and knees he crawled to the passenger side of the Tacoma and slid as much under the truck as he could get. Then he fished in the wheel well for the key holder and after a few blind grabs he found it and pulled it  loose. He removed the key and tossed the holder on the ground, then slid out the other side and stood up.
  Two hands grabbed him around the shoulder and slammed him into the ground.
  "What the fuck do you think you're doing, buddy?"
  A kick hit him in the ribs and he doubled over, groaning involuntarily.
  "That's my truck asshole! You messed with the wrong guy this time."
  Another kick. Then there were voices.
  "What's going on, James?"
  "Caught this sonofabitch trying to steal my truck."
  "Let's call the cops on his ass!"
  "Hey man, you got like since two seconds ago to get the fuck outta here or we're calling the cops!"
  One more kick into his side, as he stood up. He fell against the door of the Tacoma.
  "Off the truck!"
  The man named James grabbed his hand and twisted it hard until he felt his wrist was about to break, and he collapsed to the ground again, but quickly got to his feet and stumbled off, into the ditch. He felt a fist come down hard on his left cheek and saw a flash of light and then black as his head hit the grass. Another kick and then the voices were further away.
  "We'll be keeping an eye on you. Don't be showing your ass around here no more!"
  They were gone. He limped to the place behind the Tom Thumb, where he had eaten his food and drank his coffee and smoked. He collapsed agains the brick wall and sat there for some time, wincing from the pain. He was sure he had a broken rib. After awhile he went inside and went to the bathroom and washed his face. Already his wrist was beginning to swell and it hurt when he twisted his back. He went outside, the store clerk eyeing him suspiciously as he winced out the door.
  He kept walking the sidewalk. Inside he was furious. At himself. At those mechanics. Especially the one. James. He imagined stabbing him in the eye with a fork and pulling out the fork with the eyeball impaled on it and then shoving it down his fucking throat until he choked on it. He wanted to fucking kill him and then keep on killing him until there was nothing left of him to kill. 
  He found himself in another parking lot, walking on gravel. He was walking through a storage facility. He saw a sign, U-Stor-It. Rows and rows of of white buildings with sliding doors, padlocked. He walked through them, not seeing anything really, still enraged. But then his eyes caught something in the corner of the place, near the chainlink fence at the edge of the property. An old Chevrolet Citation, green, covered with leaves and pollen dust, a tire partially flat. He changed direction and walked up to it. The door was open. Inside it was musty. He got in. Under the floor mat he found a key. He turned the ignition and the engine turned over but didn't start. He tried again and the same. He tried a third time and it started.
  When the engine had warmed for several minutes he put it into gear and drove it slowly off the lot, out the exit gate. He returned to the Tom Thumb and put some air in the flat tire. Now the thing to do was to get to Kennesaw, pay off Rodriguez the ten thousand, buy himself some time. So he started the car and pulled around and parked around the back side of the gas station, where he could observe the garage and the mechanics. He switched off the car and sat there for some time, watching them. 
  Ever so often they'd scan the parking lot, looking for him no doubt, then return to the job at hand. He hooked up the device and placed it on his head. After becoming acclimated he spied on them again. Inside he was seething. Most of all he wanted to see the manager James. Soon he came out of the office and sipped from the water fountain. He used this moment to focus in on him, traveling inward, inward as much as he could, directing his rage inward. And then as he was walking back into the office he slipped on a spot on the concrete floor and fell hard onto his back and his head banged the concrete floor hard. The others saw the accident and ran over to him. He sat up, looking confused, disoriented, and felt around the back of his head. On his fingers was blood.
  One of the mechanics grabbed a rag and brought it over and held it over his wound. Eventually one of them stuck out his forearm and James held on and pulled himself up. He was a bit shaken, laughing it off. The other guys laughed too but they secretly looked one to another with concern. He watched James enter the office and sit behind the desk. He sat there for some time, not doing anything, staring at the paperwork. A couple times he rose from the seat but sat down again, confused.
  He could not explain the mechanism by which the event occurred but he felt as if he could do it again if he wanted, and without  too much difficulty. It was a matter of projecting your own thoughts into the subject. He hadn't commanded James to slip and fall on the floor. It didn't seem to work specifically like that. It was like he had been projecting the thought of _harm_ towards him and something within James had received that thought and then acted upon it, and from what he could tell, it was on a completely subconscious level.
  From here he could see into the office by a little window. He could see his forehead and a little of his shoulders but that was all. He decided to try it again. All he had to do was think of the beating James had given him and all the rage and anger rose up again in his imagination, and he once again projected those feelings towards his adversary. A moment later James picked up a stapler and a moment after that he heard the muffled shouting from inside the office. He saw him dancing around inside, the staple gun hanging from his thumb. A couple of the mechanics went inside and looked shocked. It appeared that he had not just stapled his thumb but had stapled through his thumbnail into the quick. James held out his arm and one of the guys gave a tug upwards and it came out. There was some blood but not a lot. He wrapped it with the same rag he had used only minutes ago on the wound from his fall.
  It was getting to be quitting time. He saw the others wrapping up their work, sweeping the floor. One of them got into the bus they were working on and started it. He pulled out of the garage and seemed to be finding a spot to park it for the night, outside. He focused in on the driver and kept focusing while he did a three point turn in the parking lot. But then when the bus was in reverse it suddenly accelerated at full speed backwards. The driver looked as if he had forgotten how to drive. As the bus gained speed the driver laid on the horn just as the rear of the bus smashed into the front of the red Tacoma, still parked in the same spot as before. The bumper and hood of the pickup crumpled and inside the cab the driver side airbag deployed. The force of the impact pushed the truck into the ditch. For a few seconds the wheels of the bus kept spinning until finally it seemed the driver regained control and put the bus in park. The side door to the bus flew open and the man jumped out and looked with horror at what he had done. Soon after that James saw the wreckage and took off in a sprint over to it. He was shouting and raising his fist in the air.
  The driver of the bus raised his hands and looked as if he were apologizing. James did not even hesitate. He shoved the guy to the dirt and began pummeling his face. The others came over and pulled him off. He relented and came up face red and chest heaving. The driver lay there holding his nose. James was shouting in frustration and went to the oak tree nearby and kicked it with all his strength, which seemed to only injure himself as he limped back to the others.
  He started to imagine the possibilities this device had and more importantly he started to understand why it was so deadly important to his pursuers. In the wrong hands this device could do some real damage. He watched them pull the bus around to the side of the building. He saw James walk over and apologize to the mechanic who drove the bus though he still looked very upset. They eventually shook hands. James got into the pickup and started it up. It still ran. He put it in gear and turned the wheels. It was drivable. They pulled the sliding metal door closed and locked it up. By then the sun was going down, the evening cold and the light darkening. Cars on the road next to the shop already had their headlights on. 
  He removed the device and put it into the backpack. When he saw the wrecked Toyota pull into the side street to enter traffic he backed out of the Tom Thumb parking lot and turned in the same direction, several cars behind. If you had asked him why he was following the driver of the Tacoma he would not have been able to say why. The smarter thing would have been to drive on to Kennesaw and pay down his debts to Rodriguez. But the anger he felt had not been erased by his acts of revenge. In fact they only seemed stronger. Whenever he imagined James kicking him in the ribs he felt a welling of frustration and violence inside. He breathing was so rapid and shallow it looked as if he had run a marathon.
  "Motherfucker."
  He clenched the steering wheel of the Citation and growled violently. He beat the passenger seat with his right fist.
"You goddamn sonofabitch. I'll murder you. I'll eat your liver. I'll eat your brains and kidneys and rip out your fucking spinal cord and shove it up your ass!"
  James took the bypass home and he followed close behind. By now it was dark and there was no way for him to be spotted so he was not concerned about that. James turned onto Eden Valley road and disappeared around the first curve of that road. He followed him there and when he made the curve he saw the red tail lights just ahead. No lights on this road. They were in the country now. No other cars. Now was the time.
  He floored the accelerator and heard the engine rev and saw those tail lights getting closer by the second. And then a hard crunch as the Citation rammed into the rear of the Tacoma. The truck swerved into the next lane and accelerated at the same time. He nearly lost control of it, even going off the road into the brush for a moment but then brought it back. He took the opportunity of confusion to ram the truck again, this time clipping the side. He laid on his horn at the same time. He saw James in the cabin turning around, headlights on his face. He looked terrified as he just floored it. By now he was probably going seventy, on these back roads that was a death sentence.
  But then he laid off the gas. He switched off his own headlights and drove in the dark, far behind him.
  The Tacoma continued to drive fast and nearly lost it around some curves up the road. He had another idea what to do and was a least a quarter mile behind at this point, following the small tail lights in the dark, using them to tell him where to go. He made a right turn here and a left turn there and came to Price road. When he turned onto Price he kept back even further. He saw the Tacoma pull into a driveway and found a spot off the road to park, hidden from the road, behind the bushes and trees.
  He got out of the Citation and walked the road to where he had seen the Tacoma pull in. It was a nice house, painted white with gray shutters, simple but modern, with a front porch and a garage, and a large yard in front, with kids toys strewn about. A nice home to raise a family. He stayed in the darkness of the bushes as he approached the house on the other side of the road. James it seemed was still in the Tacoma. Soon he got out and walked around the vehicle, from time to time looking up the road. He was on his cell phone. Eventually he saw a patrol car pull in from the other direction. An officer got out and shook his hand. He seemed to be telling him the story of the truck but more importantly how some crazy driver had crashed into him on the way home. He showed him the damage to the rear of the truck. The officer took down notes on a pad.
  At that point the porch light came on and a woman in a night gown and coat came down the steps. James turned to her and they embraced. When she saw the damage to the Tacoma a hand went to her mouth and her eyes widened. She rubbed his back in consolation. He watched and all those feelings of rage melted into jealousy. What a kind and beautiful woman. She had always been kind to him. His fucking up their relationship was something he'd never forgive himself for. Now she had moved on and found a provider, stable, in good health. But the pangs in his heart did not leave him. Still as beautiful as ever she was. It had been over a year since he'd last seen her, at the court hearing. Maturity was making her even more beautiful, untouchable in some way. She gave off a glow that to him felt decent and radiant and heartwarm.
  "Suzanne," he whispered from the shadows of the woods across the street. Speaking her name brought her closer to him, somehow. Made their time together more real. She held onto his arm like she used to hold onto his. It hurt to see that. The police officer got back in the patrol car and backed out. He ducked in the bushes so as not to be seen. When its tail lights had disappeared around the curve in the road he stood up again.
  James and Suzanne were on the porch, gazing with forlorn expressions at the pickup, holding onto one another for support. They went inside and turned off the porch light. He came out of the bushes and walked across the street, closer to their house, where he could see into the large bay window. Through the living room he could see the kitchen, Suzanne in the kitchen, finishing dinner for them. James was not around, probably washing up, changing into more comfortable clothes. He went closer, now in their yard, hiding under the canopy of a Southern Magnolia. The smell of the food seeped through the cracks in the ventilation, through the windows and doors. He smelled her meatloaf, mashed potatoes, and green beans cooked in ham. James entered the kitchen just as she was pulling a hot rolls from the oven. She set the aluminum pan on the kitchen table and broke them apart. Her husband came up behind her and wrapped his arms around her waist. He saw her eyes shut and a warm smile appear on her face. She turned with the pot holders still over her hands and kissed him.
  Tears fell onto his cheeks. They nearly froze in the cold January air. He looked above him and heard the large, waxen leaves rustling in the wind. Beyond them he saw the sky, black out here in the country, the stars shining bright. The tears he wiped away. They had surprised him because he had not even realized he was crying. But it made sense. So many things made sense to him now. He missed her. God how he missed her. 
  And then his boy Joseph, now taller and dark in the hair than he remembered, sauntered into the dining room, giggling. He ran up to James and hugged his legs. James ruffled his hair and leaned down and kissed the top of the boy's head. Then the family sat down to dinner.
  He watched them eat and talk to one another. He guessed the main topic tonight was the truck and how one of the guys at the shop hit it with a school bus and then how a crazy person out of nowhere rammed his car down on Morrison Campground. His eyes were fixed on his boy. His heart dropped out of him as he realized how much time had really passed since he had seen him. How important all those days and weeks and months are to a child. He was growing. He had grown so much. The ache he felt inside was like a bottomless pit sucking the rest of him into it. He wanted so much to provide for his son. To be able to provide for him. To give to him. To give him the world if he asked. To give and give again and never stop giving.
  