
8

  Before he realized where he was he gripped the steering wheel with both hands as if to avoid an immanent traffic accident. But the car was parked. The roaring sound that had woken him was only a nearby Mexican worker with a leaf blower, creating a wind storm for all the rogue leaves in the same parking lot where the Citation was sitting. He wiped his eyes and looked all around. He did not remember driving here. He didn't even know where here was.
  The laptop was open in the passenger seat. He pushed some keys on the keyboard but it seemed it had run out of battery. The device sat in the floorboard, crumpled. The parking lot was mostly empty, a few cars here and there. Nice ones. A Lexus, a late-model Range Rover in burgundy, a silver BMW.
  His mouth was very dry and he had a crick in his neck from sleeping in the drivers seat all night. He got out of the car and stretched. The morning air was crisp and cold, the sky clear, a bright sun just over a huge, white office complex across the street. He waved his hands at the Mexican with the leaf blower. After several seconds of no acknowledgement he walked up and waved his hands directly in front of his face. The Mexican looked up, wearing safety glasses, and pulled one of the neon green earplugs out of his ear. He then switched off the blower and all of a sudden the man could hear again.
  "Where are we?"
  "Que?"
  "What is this place?"
  "Name this place?"
  "Yes. Si."
  "Avalon."
  "What?"
  "Avalon. Av-a-lon."
  He thanked him and the Mexican went back to work. He knew Avalon. It was an upscale outdoor shopping center in the next town over. Just opened, right after Thanksgiving. He had never been there, here. He had only heard the ads on the radio. He packed up the computer and device into the backpack, slung it over his shoulder, and walked towards what looked like the main entrance way, trying to remember why he had driven here the night before.
  It was very nice, much nicer than any mall or store he had ever been to. What struck him the most was how clean everything was. Some of that had to do with the newness of it. But part of it too was how expensive and refined the buildings were. It was like they had spared no expense. The buildings were all the same, a beige sandstone with dark gray trim. The concrete sidewalk was almost white and ever so often there would be a little Bradford Pear tree, its limbs barren now. But in springtime he knew it would be that much more fancy. At the end of the main block he spotted a place that looked open. There was a couple sitting outside, drinking smoothies. He decided to walk there to see if he could find a place to charge up the computer.
  The place was called Just Juice. The sign was bright orange and purple. He went inside where everything was very clean, just like outside. Like a museum. It felt so clean it made him uncomfortable, like he was contaminating the perfection of the place with his human body, with all its hair and sweat and skin. A young woman stood at the counter with a large smile.
  "Good Morning! Welcome to Just Juice. What can I get for you today, sir?"
  "You got coffee?"
  The woman closed her smile just a bit, and winced, as if she hated to have to give him bad news.
  "No sir, we're just juice. For breakfast we make really great smoothies. Would you like one of those?"
  "Yeah, I'll have a smoothie."
  "What flavor combination would you like this morning?"
  "What flavors you got?"
  She pointed to the sign above her.
  "I'll have the strawberry."
  "You get two flavors and one extra for a dollar."
  "Just double the strawberry."
  "Okay, sir. That'll be $5.99."
  While he waited he looked for an outlet but didn't see one inside. Out the window he saw an extension cord connected to a power strip, with a single fan hooked to it. He figured he could use one of those outlets. A few minutes later the woman handed him the smoothie and he went outside and sat around one of the tables with the umbrella in the middle, close enough that the power cord would reach to the extension cord. He took a sip of the smoothie but found it way too sweet. So he went back inside and ordered a water, just something to quench his dry mouth. Then he sat outside and let the computer charge, all while trying to remember what had brought him here the night before.
  And then he did remember. After leaving the house where he saw Suzanne and Joseph, and that guy James he had the radio on, and heard about a sale at Avalon for one of those video game systems that Joseph had been wanting. So he got on the road and drove here, not thinking the place would be closed. So he pulled into the parking lot and must have fallen asleep. There was a lot going on and he had the feeling that using the device might of had something to do with it too.
  A couple hours later it was warmer and the shopping center was picking up a crowd. The sidewalks were dotted with packs of families, groups of women, carrying bags, dressed to the nines in fancy clothes they probably bought here. He felt out of place but didn't feel like getting up at the moment. The computer was nearly charged. And then coming down the sidewalk he saw a woman by herself. He sat up and watched her approaching. There was something about the way her auburn hair blew in the wind and the way her thin figure filled out the peacoat she wore in just the right places, with just the right curves. Her delicate neck was exposed whenever the wind blew her hair the right way and her gloved hands he could tell were just as delicate.
  After pulling the device from the backpack he connected it to the fully charged computer and started up the program. This time using it there was barely any of the bottom of the ocean disorientation before things returned to normal and he focused on the woman on the sidewalk. He saw she was focused on having her phone repaired at the Apple store and buying a new gingham shirt for her husband at the J.Crew store. Then a late lunch at Farm to Ladle, maybe half an avocado caprese sandwich with a cup of their wonderful turkey chili. He looked closer and saw she that she resented her husband spending all his time away from their kids, working on the weekends, hanging out with business colleagues after hours to _network_. Closer still and he saw she sometimes wondered if she still loved him, if she would not have been happier with another man from her past, one who had stirred her heart and made her feel like everyday a new adventure. But he was a good provider, Robert, and they had built a wonderful life together. He bought her the Lexus she had her eyes on, the RX, and it was beautiful. She loved to drive it. And her children were getting a great education since they were able to afford a home in Glen Abbey and the schools in this area were the best in all of Georgia. There was a lot to be thankful for and she was thankful.
  "Excuse me, ma'am?"
  She looked startled, as if she had been awoken from a deep slumber, then turned to him, eyes flashing.
  "Oh, sorry, you scared me."
  "Oh I apologize. See I'm going to be doing a little shopping around here today and I was wondering if you might want to join me for a little while?"
  Her eyes dropped, in thought. Her lips pursed and she smiled warmly. Her left hand reached up and brushed the hair behind her ear.
  "Well I'm not sure, I was in a bit of a rush to run some errands and then head back to work. I have a meeting in a couple hours. I'd like to though."
  "It sure would be fun. I think it'd be more fun than going back to some boring old job."
  "Maybe. I mean yeah my job can be pretty boring. What did you say your name was?"
  "Well I didn't say. Do you want to know it?"
  She laughed.
  "Yes!"
  "Yours first."
  "Elizabeth."
  "Oh, Elizabeth. That was my mama's name."
  "No way! Was it really?"
  "No, her name was Donna, actually."
  She laughed again.
  "You are funny!"
  "No, I'm Will. Nice to meet you."
  He reached out his hand and she took it, softly shaking it.
  "Will. I like that name."
  "Do you?"
  "I do. Its very masculine."
  She bit her lip and smiled.
  "I guess I could come with you for awhile. Where do you want to go?"
  "There's a store around here that's supposed to have a deal on the Nintendo Switch, some video game thing. Gonna pick up one of those for my boy."
  "Oh my sons got a Switch for Christmas. They absolutely love it! Was the store GameStop by any chance? There is one a couple blocks over there. We could try?"
  "I think it was GameStop, yeah."
  Elizabeth took him by the hand and led him across the street to a cross-section where there was a large kiosk with a diagram of the entire place. She found the GameStop and their location in Avalon. They walked that way, admiring how blue the sky was today and how warm the sun was on their faces. In the store they found the Nintendo Switch on sale. He got one and a couple of games to go with it. When they got to the register Elizabeth reached into her purse and brought out a credit card.
  "Let me get this for you."
  "I have money. I can buy it."
  "No but I want to. It's no problem."
  He nodded and after a moment of hesitation, acquiesced.
  She paid for the console and games and after they carried the bag to his car and placed it in the trunk.
  "Will, I just thought about something."
	"What is that?"
	"Does Joseph have a television to play the video games on?"
	"I honestly have no idea."
	"Don't you think maybe we should get a television for him just in case? It wouldn't make sense to have the video game console without a television to play it on."
	He thought about it.
	"That does make sense. Do you know any stores around here that sell televisions?"
	She looked around her. Then pointed past the parking deck.
	"Over there is the Best Buy. They sell electronics, home decor, everything like that."
	"You sure are a kind and thoughtful woman," he said, "I think I like you."
	She seemed embarrassed and took his hand again.
	"I think I like you too."
	They walked to the store, a large warehouse building on the other side of Avalon. Shoppers zipped around them, on foot, in cars, a security guard went past on a Segway, the red light on the handle flashing. They crossed a large intersection and walked into the main entrance. Elizabeth took a shopping cart from the line of them in the lobby and they entered.
	Inside it was very bright. There were electronics everywhere, of every kind. Smartphones, digital DSLR cameras, computers, laptops, tablets, video games, washer and dryers, refrigerators, car audio stereos and speakers, and at the back there were rows and rows of high definition television sets, all playing the same movie, of a man and his son flying a kite in a field. The workers in blue shirts approached them but Elizabeth waved them away. In here, just like in the juice bar, he felt unclean. The place was so sanitary and perfect and he was not. He felt as if he didn't belong here. At that moment he felt Elizabeth squeeze his hand as if to say, _You are perfect just as you are and you do belong here, next to me_.
	They looked at the televisions. He found a nice 42-inch one with vibrant colors that was not too expensive. He wanted to be modest, didn't want to make a big showing of it and get a 60-incher, though he could afford it. Besides 42-inches should be all Joseph needs in his room. He voiced his concerns to Elizabeth and she agreed. Better to be modest. They grabbed the ticket and started to head for the register but it occurred to him that Joseph might not have a place to set the television. He hadn't even considered that before.
	"It's no problem," Elizabeth assured him, "They have entertainment centers here. It's a small selection but I bet we can find something that Joseph will like."
	There were five entertainment centers that he liked. The best one was one with a wooden frame and a black glass top, sitting only a few feet high, but with plenty of shelving space for a game system, games, and anything else he might get later. That was important to consider, not just what's good for today but what's good for a year from now, two years from now. Elizabeth agreed with him on this point too. They grabbed a ticket for the one he liked and made their way to the register.
	The man who checked them out asked if they wanted to insure the items for up to two years, for only a little more money. He thought that was a good idea but looked to Elizabeth to make sure she agreed, since she was the one making the purchase, and she did agree, so they added it. They told him to drive around the side so they could load up the television and entertainment center into his car.
	"We walked here from the other side of Avalon. Can one of your guys go get the car while we wait here? It's a long way to walk."
	"Of course, sir. That's no problem. I'll just need your keys."
	He handed them over and described where the car was and what it looked like. The man handed the keys off to some kid from the back room wearing the same blue shirt, and he took off, running through the parking lot as fast as he could, arms and legs pumping. Meanwhile he and Elizabeth walked outside. Elizabeth saw a small stand of neon lighted keychains.
	"Oh, these are wonderful. Don't you think so, Will?"
	"They are. I'd like to have one of those on my keychain."
	He turned back to the man at the register, had to wave to get his attention.
	"Sir, would it be okay if we take these?"
	The man nodded.
	"Sure, that's no problem."
	He picked up the stand and found that it wasn't as heavy as it looked. The keychains jangled around but none of them fell off. They took the stand and sat on the curb for a few minutes, waiting for the driver. He soon pulled up and two other men, wearing back braces, pushed over the television and entertainment center, on carts, and lifted them into the trunk. When they were done they thanked them and got in.
	He drove around to the place in the parking lot where her car was. The parking lot was full and there were people everywhere, much different from the morning. They got out and he helped her put the stand of keychains in the back of the Lexus. The car smelled new inside. Then he shut the hatch and walked over to Elizabeth. They hugged. She squeezed him tightly. He squeezed back.
	"I don't want to say goodbye."
	"Me neither."
	"This feels so real. So right."
	"I know."
	They pulled away and stared at one another. There was a youthful glow in her face and eyes, her lips full. His heart was filled with a longing to be with her, to take care of her, and devote his life to her alone. The feeling was a mixture of sexual longing and spiritual fulfillment and left him feeling euphoric. And somehow he knew she was feeling the same thing.
	"Spend some time with me. Let's go for an early dinner."
	"Okay," she replied, softly, eagerly.
	"Can I ask you a question?"
	"Yes."
	"May I call you Suzanne?"
	She looked him in the eyes and exhaled, as if she had been waiting for that question for an eternity.
	"I'd like that. Very much."
	It was late in the afternoon and long shadows fell over the buildings and the sidewalks where they walked through Avalon to the center courtyard. Here there were several upscale restaurants, open but not busy yet, setting up tables and preparing for the evening. A fountain in the center of the courtyard erupted from time to time in a series of vertical jets. As they walked around the fountain he thought it would be fun to try to walk on those jets as they erupted. He climbed up on the stone guardrail and waited for the right moment and then when the first jet shot up he hopped onto it with one foot and it pushed him about ten feet into the air. When that jet reached its crest, he hopped onto the next one, which was just a bit higher, and then the next one, until he was on the center one just as it was coming down. But he didn't want to get wet in the pool so he reached out and grabbed the guardrail and heaved himself over the side, back onto the walkway. Then he rejoined Suzanne and they continued to the restaurant.
	It was a small Italian place, Colleta, and they were seated without delay by a supremely courteous and professional waiter with hair slicked back, white shirt, black slacks. On the table they found breadsticks waiting for them. Goblets of water filled to the brim. He walked around and pulled the chair for her and she gave a small curtsey as she sat down. This was a clean place, dimly lit, walls clay-colored, decorated with paintings of the old world, lined with plants and vines. They looked through the menu and in the meantime ordered a bottle of red wine, sommelier's choice. When they had ordered there was a lull where it seemed obvious this was not some fantasy but a real thing. He felt as close to her as he had felt to any person in his life. He felt like anything he would say would be right and anything he said would be true.
	"Tell me about you. I want to know everything. Who are you?"
	She met his gaze with one as equally sincere. They shared a silence which might have been eternal. There was a patience in it, a complete lack of anticipation, as if all was already fulfilled and there was nothing else lacking. Once again he admired her body, her beautiful face, so lithe and youthful, though she had to be his age. He knew she had children. Her eyes contained a mutual understand that he had never experienced before.
	"Nothing before today exists. Nothing before this time we have together is real. Don't you feel that way?"
	He thought about it, a strange thing to consider, but it didn't sound strange whatsoever coming from her.
	"I do feel that way. The only thing that exists is us, together. Suzanne."
	As he pronounced her name she sighed. A waiter came to take their dinner order. After he excused himself to the bathroom. He found it at the back of the place, a unisex toilet. He did his business and washed his hands and looked into the mirror. He found his expression hard to understand. He looked happy. For the first time in a long time.
	_When it happens it happens like this_, he told himself, both in the dream and aware of it too. And then he returned to their table to find Suzanne waiting for him, two glasses of red wine filled in front of them. They toasted and drank. It was good. The wine was very good. They talked but it didn't even register to him what they spoke about. He was overcome by the feeling of belonging. Belonging to her. The security of that feeling, of knowing she would be there, by his side, until the end of time if it came to that. At least that long. He did not believe in God but he found in this feeling something like that which his Baptist friends had always spoken, a feeling of the eternal in a single moment of time.
	Two waiters brought the food, from the kitchen. Trays of expensive meats, roasted, piled high. They brought over loaves of bread, golden baked and smothered in butter. Others were seated at their table. That didn't matter to them. They brought dishes of casserole and salads, fresh vegetables cut and soaked in oil and vinegar. He loaded a plate and began eating. He stuffed himself and then went back for seconds. The others at the table did the same. They spoke to their table mates as brethren, as if they had known them forever, and talked about Avalon and the larger city around them, and then of universal things, of God whose existence they were all sure about.
	When they were finished with dinner he rose and helped Suzanne from her chair and led her to the Citation next to the table. She got in and he drove them to the exit. But there were many people in the way, waiting to get a table at the restaurant. His car turned down narrow isles of the tables, trying to find the exit. People in the booths were watching them.
	But it was too much.
	"We'll never get out of here. There are too many people."
	He agreed with Suzanne. It seemed to him like it would be better to rise above them, to float, and he grabbed her hand warmly and thought about rising out of the Citation, and they did. They rose out of the car and the crowd in the restaurant. They flew above all of that so that they could observe it from a distance, the tops of their heads at the bar, the bustle of the staff, they floated above it all. And out of Colleta, into the square at Avalon. It was dark. The lights of the storefronts and the sidewalk illuminated the night with a warm, incandescent glow. They both, hand in hand, rose above it all. They exchanged glances of perfect understanding as they flew over the buildings and the parking lot. He felt her hand squeeze his, telling him she wished to descend, and they did, into a side street.
	They were walking through a round building, the walls smooth and curved. People there did not seem to recognize them and looked at them as if they were strangers. They came to a place which was partitioned into corridors with makeshift panels, human in height.
	"I want to do this."
	She told him this and immediately his heart sank, because he knew he couldn't stop her, and there was a part of him that didn't want to stop her, because their connection was deeper than any intellectual understanding of right and wrong.
	So they got in line. And before them and behind him were others, junkies, talking about their addiction. About the best way to get the best high, and he felt again as if he didn't belong here, but he held onto Suzanne. She was excited. The nurse in line asked them why they were here.
	"I am addicted and need it to get through the day."
	The nurse wrote this down and her assistant next to her reminded them that they needed to hand over all personal belongings. So they both handed over the contents of their pockets, his wallet and keys, her purse and coins from her pockets. That was everything they had. Then they were in line awaiting the dispensing of the drug. The choice was meth or heroin. He knew she would choose the meth. And she did. The nurse handed her the small cup, filled with the granulated bits, pale blue in color. When Suzanne held the cup she ran a finger through it, and then dumped the entire contents of the cup into her mouth and swallowed.
	"You took too much. That was for us both. But you took it all."
	But Suzanne was somewhere else. She was in a place he had not been invited to. Alone. He knew then his role was to protect her from any harm, to watch over her as she went on this journey, this trip into the unknown. He was afraid she would die. And that if she died he would be alone. He wrapped his arm around her waist and walked her outside the partitions, wondering to himself how and why this was legal. It seemed to be something new, something beyond him.
	And then it took hold. He looked at her and did not recognize the woman whom he had fallen in love with, any kind of closeness. They were on a beach in an empty stretch of land somewhere in Florida. The rocks on the beach hurt his feet but he still walked beside her. The sky and the beach and the horizon in between was all he could see. She ran away from him. He took off after and ran until once again he was in a building surrounded by people. He caught her by the shoulder and she turned and he could see that she was not breathing right. Her breaths were shallow, her body was not getting enough oxygen to keep her alive. He panicked. She was crying, regretting that she had taken the meth in the first place. But it was too late.
	He decided to take her to an infirmary which was in the circular building. They walked the corridors, panicked, trying to hold it together. They came to a place with social workers behind counters, even a police officer behind the counter. This was the place where they could get help for her condition. It seemed very important they get seen as soon as possible, because he knew she may not live. He ran his hand across her back and felt the shallow breaths. He felt like she was not getting the oxygen she needed to live and this to him felt like his own death because somehow their lives had been bound together and he had no life of his own, without hers.
	At the counter the woman was very kind, and did not panic when he told her of the condition of Suzanne, who was now pale and whose breaths were rapid and shallow. She said they could help the addiction and that it was no problem. Behind the woman in the counter a shape emerged, wearing a robe and whose face could not be seen inside the hood of the robe.
	It emerged from behind the counter and was behind Suzanne. He watched with concern and curiosity. He wanted very much for her to survive, to be okay. The being in the robe as it approached loomed over her body. It was at that time that he realized the robe was not cloth. It was not a robe at all. It was flesh, the being itself. And the hood was not a hood but the face itself, and the darkness within was not hiding some other form but nothingness. The being knelt and as it knelt Suzanne fell to the floor and curled up. Then the hooded being hovered over her sleeping body. The hood or what he understood to be the hood but was really the face, the flaps of skin, enveloped her face and her entire head and adhered to the shape of her head. And then it seemed as if it were feeding or if not feeding then extracting the contamination from her being. That being it became clear to him fed on the contamination of others.
	He saw her body lying there, on the floor of the building, that being with its fleshy flaps of skin wrapped around her head, something was going on that he had no way to comprehend. So he accepted it, and prayed for the best.
	And then she was awake. And once again she was in his arms and when he looked at her he recognized the soul which stared back at him. And he felt relief. But she was very tired so he suggested they get a hotel room. And she agreed to that, being very tired and unable to make plans.
	Into the lobby they walked arm in arm. He held her as if he were holding a wounded soldier, someone vulnerable, someone dependent who had once been strong. They approached the counter and he asked for a room. The rooms at this short notice were not cheap, nearly three hundred dollars but he said the price was fine. And the person checked them in and handed him the key and told them the best route to get to the room.
	He took her to the room, swiping the card over the panel with the light which turned green. He brought her inside and let her collapse onto the bed. She thanked him for all he had done for her and even apologized for the trouble she had caused. But for him it had been no trouble. And he told her that. She smiled a warm smile. He went the window and closed the curtain where the lights from the storefronts and parking lot could be seen. He turned the heater up and went into the hallway to fill the ice bucket for the Chardonnay he had sent up during checkin. When he returned she was already under the covers and the look on her face was telling him to join her there. So he did.
	Her skin against his was warm, almost hot. Her breasts soft, he cupped them and kissed them gently. She had undone her hair and her locks spread onto the pillow as if she were a mermaid floating under the ocean. She pulled him to her and kissed him. He felt her lips part and then her tongue entwined with his. None of this seemed real to him. Yet it was. She unzipped her skirt and pulled it down, around her hips, exposing black lace panties. He took off his jeans and kicked them off the bed, laughing. She laughed too and they held one another tighter, her legs wrapping around him, squeezing into him. He gripped her ass and heaved himself into her. He lost his breath during one of their kisses and rested his head momentarily on her shoulder and neck, breathing deeply in. He kissed her shoulder and then neck and then moved to her earlobes and his hands were exploring every sensual place on her body. They removed the rest of their clothing and he took one moment to look at her in this dim light and admire her body and her beauty and the look of complete love and understanding she was giving. And then he took her. And she took him. And they lost themselves in each other until he no longer knew he was himself and she no longer knew she was herself and he knew all her thoughts and feelings and she knew his and everything was communicated between them with looks and simple gestures. And she repeated his name Will and he repeated her name Suzanne and that was the last thing they remembered before sleep took them.
	The drawing of the curtains woke him in the morning. It must have been early because the sky was orange pink with low winter clouds moving by outside the large window. She returned to the bed and sat on the edge, away from him. Her skirt was on, her bra and blouse were not, back and shoulders bare. Her head was bowed. He reached out to touch her back. As he did so she jerked away with disdain and he heard her sobbing into her hands.
	"Suzanne."
	She stood and found her bra and blouse on the floor and put them on, covering her breasts as if ashamed. For the first time this morning he saw her eyes. She was panicked, frightened, disoriented. She barely knew he was there at all. She received a notification on her cell phone and went to the table to look at it. Her eyes welled, reddened from the crying she had already done this morning.
	"Suzanne. Say something."
	Every time he addressed him she winced as if it caused her pain. She continued to dress, slipping on her pumps and picking up her purse from the desk chair. He rose from the bed and tried to address her more directly. She read the messages on her phone and a fearful look came over her.
	"What have I done?"
	She left. He was in the room alone. He went to the window and looked out at the day, commuters entering and leaving Avalon, the thin branches moving in the air, a kitchen worker carrying out the trash, his breath like smoke. Then he saw her stumbling through the parking lot, in a half run half walk. Distracted. A car pulled out of its spot and nearly hit her. He could see she was crying freely now, wretched. She got into the Lexus and backed out and then accelerated through the parking lot to the exit. She ran the red light and cut off an oncoming car as she pulled into the main road. The car honked but she sped away, weaving in and out of lanes.
	