
9

  Sleeting. He parked in the same location he had found the other night, where the car would be well hidden behind some trees and bushes. Dinnertime across the street. He saw the light in the window from the kitchen where Suzanne was washing the dishes. James was clearing the table. He donned his hood to keep the sleet out of his face and brought over the gifts, still in their boxes, and set them on the porch in a place where he knew they wouldn't get wet. It took him three trips and he stumbled a couple times in the dark but his fear had not been realized. Nobody came outside. Nobody saw him. Tomorrow morning they would discover the gifts for Joseph on the porch. Cold rain on his jacket, soaking through the hood, the shoulders, feeling the wet and the cold on his skin, he headed back to the car so he could drive into town to find a room, a place to warm up and dry out on this dreary night. But as he turned to go he saw a light in the bedroom nearest to the porch. He approached the window, kneeling, and peered inside. His boy, playing with Legos on the floor, building something that looked to be half rocket ship, half monster. He was in pajamas so it must be bedtime soon. His mother had always been a stickler for that. It broke his heart to see how much he had grown since the last time he saw him, maybe a year already. Maybe longer. His hair was less blonde, brown, his arms and legs lanky now. He wondered if he was still the same boy who used to climb onto the couch and cuddle in his lap as they watched tv, whose head lay against his chest, rising and falling with his breaths, who lifted his work shirt and jiggled his belly with his hand and told him he needed to lose some weight, daddy. He felt a longing that opened up inside him like a bottomless hole. He wanted so much to hold onto this moment forever. To keep it with him always. And not like you keep a memory but like you would keep a living thing. To have it. But then he understood for the first time in his forty-plus years on Earth that a moment in time was not something you could ever possess. It was not yours to keep. It was a gift. Given to you and then taken away. At that point Joseph looked up from his Legos and saw his father standing outside the window in the sleet and the cold and the dark. He was startled at first but then grew calm. A faint smile appeared on his face as he rose and walked nearer to the window. He reached out and touched the window and his father reached out and did the same, and only a pane of glass was between them.