
10

  The clerk hadn't given him the correct room key so he had to walk back to the office in the rain and get the correct one. In one hand he carried a plastic sack from Walmart, the key in the other, backpack slung over his shoulder. He went back to 23 and found the keyhole with the lights in the parking lot and went inside and turned on the heater unit and lay on the bed. He was tired and soon fell asleep. In the middle of the night he awoke, not feeling very rested, and removed the computer from the bag and set it up on the bed beside him. He removed the burner phone from the plastic sack and unboxed it. Then he went online to activate it, being sure to not use any personal data at any step so it couldn't be traced back to him. He paid cash for it.
  When it was activated he tested it by sending a text to himself and it arrived. Then he found where he had written down Grady's cell phone number in a text file on the desktop.
  
  _Have computer. Will sell. 1 million._

  What he decided to leave out at this juncture was that he was also in possession of the device, which was arguably the most valuable piece to the puzzle. The computer itself wasn't valuable except for the program, which could easily be copied to another computer, and the notes left by Zoey Jackson. But even a dumbass like him had figured it out without understanding all the technical stuff so it must not be too critical. His plan was to inform them about the device during the transaction for the computer. Once he had the cash in hand it would ensure his safety until he figured out how to proceed from there. If they didn't balk at the one million who knows how much he'd ask for then. Half an hour passed and he was becoming worried they might have gotten rid of Grady's cell phone. But then the phone lit up with a chime and vibration. He picked it up from where it lay on the bed.
  
  _Yes. Agreed._
  
  He decided not to respond right away. To leave them on the hook. This was something he'd learned slinging dope to fiends. Dangle a carrot in front of their faces and then jerk it away right when they go to grab it. Would drive some of them batshit. He hoped it would do the same here. Not to fuck with them. To make them sloppy. To give something away he could use against them. So he lay back on the bed and looked at the cracks in the ceiling, at the bug carcasses on the bottom of the ceiling light fixture. He listened to the argument in the room next to him. A man and woman, speaking Spanish. He wondered what it was they were saying to each other. He heard their anger and frustration and wanted to know the details of the argument. Then in the next moment decided that it was not worth it. None of it. The tendrils which reached out from his being and united him to other beings and the machinery of life. To let that go. To withdraw those tendrils and retreat into the void. He felt like he could do that. That he wanted it to happen.
  He awoke several hours later, just before sunrise. Outside the light was gray and dull. Everything still damp from the rains the night before. He looked at the phone and saw two other texts.
  
  _Where and when?_
  
  And then,
  
  _Please reply soon._
  
  This was what he wanted to see. He decided to wait even longer to reply and thought about where and when this deal should happen. He had the idea to meet in his usual location on the west side of town, but now he was thinking somewhere further out would be better. Somewhere he knew the roads and where there were plenty of places for him to disappear after. He thought of the old rock quarry. It was a place he and his buddies used to go on Friday nights to drink beer and smoke pot. They'd make a big fire right near the edge of the quarry, a sheer seventy foot drop to the bottom where there was a shallow lake. He browsed to the map application and studied the roads in and out of the quarry, looking at the GPS satellite images of the place. It hadn't changed much from what he could see. But he should go out there first at least.
  A message prompt popped up on the chat application which started up automatically whenever a user was logged in.
  
  _duckdodgers2450@protonmail.com wants to be your friend. Do you accept this request?_
  
  Panic. Had he been discovered? Did they know where he was? Was he in danger? These questions went through his mind as he stared at the message. He clicked Yes and held his breath as the user was added to the list of friends. A few seconds later and a chat window opened.
  
	duckdodgers2450: who r u
	duckdodgers2450: do u have the device

  He began typing _Yes_ but then deleted his message. Whoever this was, it was not _them_. He was sure of that. The screenname, the slang, the tone of it was all different. His first thought was that maybe one of Zoey Jackson's colleagues had been working with her and escaped, perhaps. He typed again.

	z.jackson: Yes
	
	Immediately came a reply.
	
	duckdodgers2450: who r u
	
	He thought for a moment and then responded.
	
	z.jackson: computer and device are for sale. 3 million cash
	
	Time passed. Several messages were started but then cancelled by the person. Then a string of them.
	
	duckdodgers2450: wtf
	duckdodgers2450: WHO R U
	duckdodgers2450: prove u have the device

	He wrote back a quick reply.
	
	z.jackson: pink hat with cat ears
	
	Here there was a long delay. Nothing. And then.
	
	duckdodgers2450: u r in danger. do NOT sell to any1
	
	After an hour passed of him becoming more unsure of himself and feeling the situation was out of his control he broke down and wrote back.
	
	z.jackson: are you still there? how am I in danger?
	z.jackson: can we meet?
	
	Then fifteen minutes there was a reply, but it was not an answer to anything.
	
	duckdodgers2450: check email pls
	duckdodgers2450: did u get it
	
	He opened the Mail app on the dock at the bottom of the screen and checked the email. There at the top, in bolded letters, an unread email from duckdodgers2450@protonmail.com. He hesitated a moment then opened the message. It was empty. At that point he received another message.
	
	duckdodgers2450: did u get it. answer now
	z.jackson: yes, nothing there
	
	Another reply came. Now their conversation was moving at a realtime pace.
	
	duckdodgers2450: should be an attachment. aura2
	z.jackson: yes. I see the file.
	duckdodgers2450: dl file to yr desktop and run
	z.jackson: I don't know what you mean.
	duckdodgers2450: its an exe, open iTerm and run with sudo
	z.jackson: sorry I'm not a computer guy. I don't know what you are telling me.
	duckdodgers2450: click the iTerm application in the dock. Let me know when its open, black box on screen with cursor
	z.jackson: ok, its open, says Last login: Tue Jan 13 19:23:27 on ttys000
	duckdodgers2450: type in 'sudo ~/Desktop/aura2' -- no quotes
	z.jackson: asking for password
	duckdodgers2450: silver55
	z.jackson: says, 'sudo: /Users/z.jackson/Desktop/aura2: command not found'
	duckdodgers2450: did u copy aura2 to desktop?
	z.jackson: no, should I?
	duckdodgers2450: yes pls
	z.jackson: ok, its there
	duckdodgers2450: type in 'sudo ~/Desktop/aura2' -- no quotes
	z.jackson: worked, I think. Now says Please connect device, should I do that first?
	duckdodgers2450: yes pls
	z.jackson: says Device is ready
	duckdodgers2450: ok. what wallpaper is on the desktop?
	z.jackson: old photo, birthday party, black girl with family and friends
	duckdodgers2450: good. put on device and focus on image of girl in the photo.
	
	He held the knitted pink cap in his hand and re-read the messages, unsure about all of this. But someone out there understood this device better than him and was warning him of being in danger, and this person as far as he knew hadn't murdered anybody. And then one more message.
	
	duckdodgers2450: don't panic
	
	At least he thought this person wasn't connected to those others. It was not much, just an intuition, but he decided to go with his gut. That same feeling he had in the hotel with the pimp, of letting go completely. He put on the hat. This time there was barely any of the underwater lag, even less than the last time. A few minutes later he was staring at the screen and photo. But now the photo was coming into and going out of focus and the people in the photo had that same dimensionality he saw in the real world. And even more than that it seemed as if the photo was in motion. The candles on the birthday cake flickered, the breeze blew a woman's flower dress around her legs, the trees in the background swayed, random cars in the background went past, the children in mid laugh and clapping their hands with joy, and the birthday girl  in that white dress, her eyes shut, blowing out the candles, her mouth pursed like a duck, happy as a camper, with her family on either side. 
	
	It was her.
	

  