
11

  This was different. As he focused on the girl in the photograph time seemed to speed up. The only way he could tell time was passing were the visions of things passing by him, as if he were on a speeding train looking out the window at things going by. The thing was he knew he was not going anywhere. He felt the bed, his foot on the floor. He knew he was still in the hotel room. The images he was seeing seemed to be hers but he could not make any sense of them. And when at last he had reached a terminal velocity things stopped moving abruptly and he found himself within a large kaleidoscopic and fractal world, which he saw even when he shut his eyes. In other words this world existed somewhere within his own mind. And whenever he focused on some portion of the puzzle the pieces of it ordered themselves and began make some kind of sense to him. He looked one way and saw a tree and a barn and birds in the air all come together in a waterfall of colors and sounds, and then he saw a path with a boy and a man walking together on a path through the woods. Another way he saw a Ferris wheel and cotton candy and holding hands with someone, mother, and the lights blinking on the rides and the vaguely sick feeling from eating too much fried food and sugar. The sounds were also fragmented but not chaotic like the visuals. The sounds blended into something akin to a low drone or humming and then out of that drone the sounds  would come into focus more clear so you could hear the sound of the bird song or the carnival music, all out of that one sound.
  He was not alone. She was also here. And the frightening thing he started to realize was that this mosaic world also contained his own thoughts, experiences, dreams and memories. And she was free to focus on any of them at will. There was no way to keep anything from her. The very act of establishing the communication had granted her permission to the most secret places of his mind. Yet somehow it didn't matter. Because he knew that here in this world there was no judgement. It was not like the other world. It was difficult to put into words but it was something like this world and its contents of the mind was not his nor hers. The sins he had committed in his life were laid bare as were her sins. And likewise the beautiful things she had seen and accomplished were his and vice versa. And when he witnessed them he felt all the same feelings she had felt and it was like it had all happened to him. So there was no embarrassment, no guilt, only a feeling of total acceptance and whenever necessary, forgiveness.
  He wanted to have a conversation with her but he soon realized that would not be possible here, in the way he would have preferred to communicate. He sensed that she too wanted to converse with him. To communicate with words alone would not fit this place because as he realized words are man-made symbols which represent things, thoughts, emotions in the phenomenal world, and they would not be understood here in quite the same way. It wasn't that he no longer understood words or how to speak them. But for example, because here the word _car_ was not just the word-symbol for an automobile but it was also every memory, fear, dream associated with all the specific automobiles in your life and the life of the person you were in communion with. Nothing here existed as a concept and couldn't be used in that way. There were only the objects themselves, phenomenon. Another way to say it would be that there were no symbols. Everything was a relationship between the thing and your being. So to construct a sentence like 'Meet me at the Cracker Barrel on Sunday morning' would not be possible. It was not even necessary, since time and space had no meaning in this place. Everything here was one experience, all present, all now. You could partake in a dream you once had of flying like a bird over Santiago, Chile, just as easily as revisiting the actual memory of sitting up with your grandmother in the nursing home as she drew her last breaths.
  None of this he understood but felt it like an instinct. It all came very naturally and he was not overwhelmed by the strange things he saw. She must have understood even more, though, because she had already figured out how to communicate here and it was by guiding focus. If you wanted to communicate something you only had to suggest some area of the kaleidoscopic world to focus on and the suggestion could be accepted or not. You could not force anything. It was not like the things he had done to those people, where he filled their minds with suggestions they enacted in the phenomenal world. There was no control because there was nothing to distinguish another. It was all one mind and he was an impulse in this mind and she another.
  She guided him to a moment from her past. To show she came to discover and develop the technology which allowed tapping into the stream, which she had nicknamed Aura. He allowed her to show him and saw the space in front of his eyes spiral into objects and shapes he recognized and then he saw her walking alone through the woods in the dry leaves and the cold air behind the research facility. It was a clear day and she needed time to clear her head from the jumble of work of that day. Nobody else ever came out here so it was a place she could be alone with her thoughts, and it was here she had the epiphany. She hurried back to her cubicle and pulled from a shelf the first book her father had given her when she showed an interest in computers, _Fractal Programming in C_. She found the formulas for Mandelbrot and Julia and compared them against the work she had done to aggregate output from the neuroimaging data streams. The patterns definitely mimicked fractals. But there didn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to why it worked that way, that she could see at first glance. But this was the connection she had been looking for. If the brain generated a stream of data there were a couple questions she had. One, what was the content of this data and two, was there anyway to interface with it.
  Much later in the same cubicle she was there with the old woman she paid to run the experiments on. The first generation of the device was on the desk. They were taking a break, drinking coke and eating a sandwich from the vending machine. She was excitedly talking about the potential of the device to the woman, who did not seem to understand nor care really. To her it was a chance to sit in the air-conditioned building for a few hours on the weekend, get a free meal, and a few bucks for cigarettes. 
  "The problem as I now understand it is application. I wrote the algorithm to interface with the data stream, which was essentially a reverse-engineered inverse of the output, fed back into it, not unlike noise-cancelling headphones, yet instead of cancelling out it merges and creates a real-time channel. This is how I'm able to know what you're thinking."
  "I'm gonna go outside and smoke. You wanna come?"
  She declined and kept going over the problem in her head. The problem was the channel is only one-way. The possibilities for abuse of such a technology were staggering. In fact she couldn't think of a single positive application of such a tool, except as an invasion of privacy, a weapon, both on a personal level and on the level of governmental control. Terrorism. Though she wouldn't admit it to herself she was looking for a single good reason to keep the project alive. Despite the data she had to believe it was possible for there to be two-way communication via the Aura channel. The other problem was simpler but no less troubling. She knew that at least in theory the data did not require a physical cable between the electrodes. The same information could be transmitted wirelessly. And at the same time she was thinking this she was interrupted by the second epiphany.
  Months passed and the device was now embedded in the knitted pink hat that he recognized. He watched her as she went around the daily work day, pretending to be engaged in the comparatively mundane work of controlling commerce and social media applications by interpreting output of the brainwave imaging. She borrowed time during late nights and on the weekend. Whatever objections her conscience made about using the groups computers and lab equipment were overruled by the sheer excitement. He found he could share her excitement. He felt that euphoric joy she felt when she finally figured out how to go wireless. It was like every step she took forward opened up new possibilities and new problems to solve. Her brain was constantly turning over the problems, examining them as thought experiments. She didn't understand why it worked but it did. It took everything she had not to tell Richard, who used to do crazy experiments in the lab all the time back at Tech. The number one problem was always how to create a two-way communication channel. She knew only once that problem was solved would she approach anyone to let them in. She also had to figure out how to ensure the technology would not be sold or abused. She did not, and had not ever, trusted the Andromeda Group. She knew their interest in this entire field was not the betterment of humanity as much as how to more efficiently deliver advertising and therefore make more money for the shareholders and therefore themselves. This thought depressed her. One Friday evening she was at the lab alone, having too much whisky, when she got the idea to write an email to her colleagues and managers. She addressed it to the entire group with the subject line, _The Future of this Lab: A Manifesto_.
  
To my fellow researchers and staff,

I felt inspired to write you all and say something that's been on my mind. Since I've been here I've recognized something disturbing in the hallways, in the lab, in the meeting rooms, and even in the break rooms of this place that I can no longer ignore, the unwritten law we are all expected to follow without question. In case you don't know what I'm talking about, it is this, 

_The only idea worth spending time on is that which has the potential to make money, by either direct or indirect means_.

Any other kind of idea is a waste of time. Any other idea is pointless. How many times have I come here excited about some new, admittedly stupid idea and rush to tell all my colleagues about it only to be met with apathy and impatience. But if I say  that same stupid idea has potential to make money, or say that it could be a business, those same eyes light up and at that moment you see what truly stirs their souls. The promise of wealth, riches, an easy life. We have to stop this. We have to encourage each other to do _pointless_ work. Work whose only purpose is that it makes us see the world from a different perspective, or from a new angle. The pursuit of wealth creates an limiting barrier. It boxes us in. It holds us back from realizing our true potential! I felt compelled to write this letter to say it out loud, at least one time, that this is wrong, and more than wrong, its fucking bullshit! We are men and women of science. We have such powerful tools at our disposal and such powerful minds to utilize them and we're spending our time and energy figuring out how to extract yet more money out of people? So consider this a manifesto. Resist it. Speak out against it. Do the work that inspires the part of you that wants to understand the world from a new perspective, not the part of you that merely wants to survive. Work towards creating a better world for our children. One that isn't just based on money at the expense of everything else. I promise I will from this point forward.

Zoey Jackson
  
  To this email, sent to the entire Andromeda Research team, about fifty to seventy five employees, managers, and directors, she received no reply, except for one, a reply from Richard Dewey, her immediate supervisor, who asked her to come talk to him on Monday morning.
  After this debacle she began to feel very protective of the Aura project and grew paranoid about ways it could be discovered before she was ready. She hid all the files in secret places on her hard drive. The one weak point was that she needed subjects to run tests on. And that created a security hole, since she didn't feel like she could trust the old woman who had been helping her. She was not reliable and could easily be bought. She couldn't go through the normal channels by which they hired human guinea pigs. She thought to put up an ad on Craigslist but that seemed like a bad idea waiting to happen. These things were on her mind when she landed on the third epiphany of this project.
  It started as an insane idea, even to her, coming to her in a state of nodding off one weekend, the device still on her head. In this dream she made a bizarre step of logic that the stream was not necessarily bound to the same physics as normal electricity and that maybe it wasn't necessary at all to be in proximity to the subject. As long as your own stream was reaching out with a particular pattern (which so far seemed to be unique to each person) it would latch on. But how would the software get the initial data to run through the algorithm to produce the connection stream? Here was the major leap. That it was incidental the stream uses electric waves. Since she really didn't understand the mechanism that well, then why the hell shouldn't it work? Maybe just focusing on a particular subject would be enough to receive the stream data. When she awoke the idea seemed very stupid and she couldn't even remember it over her breakfast of coffee and toast that morning. But that next evening, in the dark hours, the idea came again. So wild and out there and frankly insane that she laughed. But she had an itch that night to do something wild and out there and frankly insane. So she modified the software and placed the device on her head. She turned it on and closed her eyes and focused her mind on the old woman who had been helping her. She had no idea where she was or what she was doing. It didn't work. But she felt the stream attempting to do something. She wasn't feeling very imaginative tonight, her brain was tired from being on inventory duty earlier that day. So she opened one of the videos logs of the woman and paused it when she could see her face. At that moment she had to laugh as she realized the utter ridiculousness of what she was doing.
  "Is this real science?" She asked the empty building.
  And a few moments later replied, "Bet your ass it is."
  Then she switched on the software, adjusted the device on her head, and focused intently on the old woman's face. And she was there, her mind available just as it was when she was sitting on the opposite side of the table, wires connected. She re-observed some of the same memories she had previously documented from their experiments, to verify what she was seeing. And then abruptly shut off the device. Within her was a feeling like what she was doing was unethical. Immoral really. An immense invasion of privacy. But the technology worked. It really did. She also felt an obligation to develop this idea in private. In the wrong hands or without proper understanding this tool could have devastating results.
  She did not yet feel comfortable sharing her research with the Andromeda Group. And in fact, even when she was ready, she would approach her friend Richard first. But not yet. First she needed to verify once and for all that it was possible to observe the mind of someone who was not even present. This technology, properly utilized, could connect people from different socioeconomic backgrounds, cultures. Because of the empathy which was the true foundation of the technology, for the first time misunderstandings could be resolved. The possibilities seemed mind-boggling and she did not let herself go there just yet. She needed to do one more test to make her case, ethics be damned. She made a few conditions and documented them well. This person should be a public figure, one who has already made the decision to trade privacy for the spotlight. The other condition was that it should be a person she knew to be antithetical to her own belief system. If the value of this tool was empathy, then there was no better test to see if she could achieve understanding herself, by opening a channel to someone who stood for everything she hated. It did not take her long to find him.
  This man of business. This old white man, born with a silver spoon in his mouth, who had never done anything that wasn't for his own personal brand his entire life. This man whose vanity put his name in gold letters on hotels and casinos all over the world. This man whose brutish and debased character wiped away any of his competitors through shady deals and unethical business practices. An overweight, orange-haired horror whose fame grew on television, who used his success to appeal to those who still believed the American dream could work for them too, who still equated vast wealth with virtue instead of greed and corruption. This man of business rose to the highest office in the land to become President of the United States.
  It was not difficult to find an image of him to focus on. She found a photo on a news website and readied the device, placing the knitted hat on her head. She started the program and focused on his image. Briefly the thought that this could be an act of treason crossed her mind, but she had to know. If this were a real it would change the world and she had to know it was possible and to see it for herself, no matter what the cost.
  As her vision stabilized she saw into his image, much like the way it happened in her experiment on the old woman early. And suddenly she was no longer looking at his image but at the man himself. The image twisted and swirled as she went deeper and what was unclear to her was if what she was seeing was a memory or a dream or something happening in that moment. She did not feel well, the disorienting feeling seemed amplified by the distance. She wasn't even sure about what she was seeing, if it were in her own mind. 
  She was in a crowd of people, dressed how politicians in Washington D.C. dress, all black business wear, long coats, impeccable hair and makeup. Surrounded by black limousines, SUVs, police on motorcycles. It was a cold day, overcast. The streets were wet, the grass on the park where they all stood was set. They were waiting for something, for someone to arrive. And then a stretched Cadillac emerged from a nearby side street, huge and black, flags of the USA affixed to the hood. The police had cleared a spot on the street and the car pulled to a stop. The rear door opened and she had a difficult time seeing who emerged, so she fought through the crowd to get a better view. And on the ground next to the opened door there slithered the president like an obese serpent, up the curb and onto the grass, his arms tucked at his side, his long red tie stained by the dirt and the grass, his head raised and a forked tongue stuck out of his small, round mouth.
  She stood back, fearful, like many in the crowd, and then the president raised up onto his legs, towering above them all and shrank down to his normal size again. Men in trench coats approached him from both sides and wiped the grass and dirt from his shirt as he began to smile and shake hands with all in attendance, including herself.
  Then the streets and the park in Washington crumbled away, the daytime sky dropped like a curtain and suddenly it was dark, the moon in the sky on a clear night. She stood in a construction site, on a dirt road, where massive buildings surrounded her on every side, she saw the beams and girders, temporary lifts, plastic tarps nailed over the openings. She walked down the road hoping to find something. And then in a parking spot lit by a single overhead light she saw the Cadillac from the motorcade. With apprehension she approached the car, looking around to make sure no one else was around, looking at the ground since she wasn't sure what was real and what was not. And then she was inside the car, in the front seat, with a clear view of the back seat, the original version of _China Girl_ playing on the radio. And there was the president, bent over the rear console, pants around his waist, belly drooping over the console and his small hands gripping hard the sides of the leather seats, his face in pained ecstasy. The man behind him thrusted as if it were his duty to do so. And then she was no longer herself. She was him. And with his eyes she looked at the front seat and saw nobody there in the place she had been sitting only moments ago. She herself felt the spasms of pleasure from those hard thrusts and then a feeling she had not expected to feel, something feminine and yielding, deep within. She let out a groan and heard his own voice. He gripped the soft leather of the seats and placed her hand down on the floorboard and shut her eyes. A wave of intense pity nearly brought him to tears, pity for those who would never know this kind of luxury, this kind of refined excellence. He felt for the poor in this world who would never know that feeling of taking off your socks and rubbing your toes through the camelhair in these floor mats. Then there were tears, for the poor who would never know the feeling of high-quality leather on your skin, when everything you own and come into contact with on a daily basis is of the utmost quality, the best quality. He wept for them.
  They were on the road again, driving out of the construction site. They drove the back streets until they reached the interstate and got on, blue signs with white letters directing them back to Pennsylvania Avenue. They came to a stop, traffic was stopped from an accident on the highway. It was not too far ahead. From the looks of it the accident had not happened that long ago. A tractor-trailer was jackknifed in the middle of the lanes, flames emerging from underneath the trailer, billows of black smoke spewing into the air. Underneath the trailer was the wreckage of a white Lexus, also burning, crushed up to the windshield. Whoever was driving it surely dead.
  The president got out of the back seat and jogged to the site of the wreckage, his driver calling out the window for him to come back, that it wasn't safe. His trench dangled in the night air as he ran, passing by cars with surprised faces when they saw him go by. A few minutes later he arrived at the scene. The truck driver was being attended to by two people, one of whom wiped his face and neck with a wet cloth. The firetrucks and ambulances had not yet arrived. Another crowd was standing back, away from the Lexus which was on fire, looking in. When he walked up the people were surprised and didn't know how to react. He ignored them.
  "Is anyone alive in that car?"
  "Mr. President?"
  "I said is anyone in that car!"
  A man came up. His voice was shaky.
  "There is a woman, sir. We are afraid to move her. She is injured but still alive."
  "What's your name, son?"
  "David."
  "David, let me tell you something. That car is on fire. In a few minutes those flames will have reached the cabin and will have burned that poor woman alive. Do you want that to happen on your watch?"
  "No, sir."
  "Then help me get her out. We don't have time to wait for the EMTs. It'll all be over by the time they arrive."
  A group of three of them, led by the president, approached the burning car. The president removed his white scarf and using that they tied her arms across her chest, to minimize her injuries.
  "Now look. As we pull her out we need to be extra careful with her neck and spine. David, I need you to grab her legs and pull them out from behind the steering wheel. And you, sir, you I need to support her back at the torso. Do whatever you can to prevent her spine from moving. We won't disturb her from the position she's in now. We'll wait on the paramedics to do that."
  With this, he reached in and unstrapped the seat belt. She opened her eyes and saw him but did not recognize him. With the three of them they were able to get her free and carry her to a safe place. They set her down in the same position, he holding her behind the head so it would not move. The others were able to let her go and they stood up.
  There was a deep laceration on her torso, which opened when her arms opened and blood poured out onto her blouse.
  "Don't stand there, you guys! Get me something to help cover her wounds. Blankets, a jacket, anything. Now!"
  The woman became conscious and when she saw her wounds started to panic and her breathing became more rapid.
  "I'm dying. Oh God no. Oh please."
  He tried to calm her, he placed his hand on her forehead and hair. She looked up at him and did recognize him, but looked confused. At this point the flames from the Lexus had spread to the cabin and beyond, to the back seat and gas tank. There was a large explosion which frightened the woman. He only kept his hand on her forehead and held her in his arms. Some others gave him a blanket and he spread it around her to help stop the bleeding. But there was really nothing be done.
  "How about that ambulance? Are they here yet?"
  "No sir. 911 said they were on the way."
  The woman was frightened. He held her but felt that her skin was cold, pale. Her breaths were shallow. Again she looked up at him. Her mouth trembled. He leaned closer to hear.
  "I'm sorry for all the things I did."
  She repeated this several more times, her voice becoming fainter, and each time he responded by whispering into her ear.
  "You are loved."
  She removed the device and set it down on the table and dried her her eyes. Then she went downstairs and out the side door to smoke and she gazed up at the stars. Out here, away from the lights of the town, you could often see the Milky Way. She saw it tonight, those million specks of light, swirling together. Her thoughts went back to what she had just experienced, the things she had seen, no felt. Her heart was his and his heart was hers and it was that moment she knew the potential this device had was real. It would change the world. She tried to imagine the world it would create.
  People would have the ability to fully understand, for maybe the first time in history, their neighbor. And not only to understand, but to know their neighbor as well as they know themselves. In such a world how can one take advantage of another? It doesn't seem possible. And if one is in want and another has that which the other person needs, then it goes without saying that the person who has will give it to the one who needs. In this way economies throughout the world would stabilize, wealthy nations would give their surplus resources to poorer nations until an equilibrium has been established. From this point onward all governments would then unite, how could it be otherwise? If every man and woman on Earth becomes as fully known to you as your own brother or sister, and you feel the responsibility that one has towards a member of your own family, then how else could it be? Then working together, every human being on this planet, towards the common good of each one, what sort of world would that create?
  She let her mind go further. She saw the troubles which plague our civilization vanish overnight, problems of the poor, problems of the distribution of resources utterly gone. Issues of social justice like racism, sexism, gender bias, religious discrimination would disappear. It seemed too good to be true. So then she tried to poke holes in this line of reasoning. There would be those who resist, who would not trust the technology, either from fear or religious beliefs, or just a simple independent spirit. There would be those who benefitted from the current system who like things as they are, thank you very much, and they would choose not to participate. There might even be propaganda distributed saying that this new way was harmful and destructive to our values. The thing to do here would not be to force them to join in. Let people live as they want. Freedom should not be taken away. As the old way of life crumbles into a relic of the past they will eventually see that this new way is for the benefit of all. The important thing would be to allow people to join in their own time. To not use the technology to become fascists.
  She let her mind go to other, more specific things. Banded together with all the worlds resources behind it, the scientific community would make tremendous progress in eradicating diseases and in discovering new medicines and technologies to ease the suffering of those whose diseases were not curable. With no more  contradicting data from the companies who profit from polluting technologies such as oil, we would do what we can to clean up the environment, develop better, non-polluting sources of renewable energy. At the same time we would begin to put serious resources behind space exploration, not driven by the fear of an enemy country establishing weaponry in orbit, nor to just look for more resources, but instead driven out of a genuine curiosity of what lies beyond the boundaries of our understanding.
  What sort of people would they be? she wondered. Would they be hive-mind drones, with no individual sense of self, would personality reach of a point of equilibrium just like with resources once everyone shared a common mind. But it wasn't a common mind, really. That was a mistaken notion. This was not about suppressing the individual. It was about empathy, an ability to understand another, and recognize they are a part of you. Empathy doesn't work unless there are boundaries of self. People would be free for the first time in history to truly be themselves, to follow the impulse of their hearts, without a need to struggle for survival of their basic needs. Food, medicine, clothing, shelter, these will become basic human rights, which everyone agrees to and contributes towards.
  She saw people moving off of Earth, in small groups at first. Colonizing the moon, then Mars, the moons of Jupiter. Harvesting materials to build permanent space stations, more than stations, but habitable arks. All those strange futures she had read about in science fiction novels and film, they could be true.
  Again the setting fell away, the space arks, Jupiter and its moons, space itself melted as if made of wax and another swirl of imagery took its place. She was in the office with a man, a placard that read Richard Dewey, Director was on the desk. She was explaining the technology to him. He was watching her intently, with skepticism. When she was finished there was a moment of silence that went on for almost a minute. Richard sat in his chair again, looking at the desk, not making eye contact. She too looked down.
  "I assume you have documentation of your research so far. Also I asked you to bring your computer, where is that? All of it will need to be handed over, along with your security badge, so we can verify the things you have told me so far, and figure out how best to move forward. I'm sorry it has to be this way, Zoey, but you had to know we'd find out sooner or later. I mean, this is huge. More than huge. Now hand over the computer, and your badge."
  "I won't give you my computer. It's in a safe place, along with every piece of documentation and software that I've ever written for project Aura. The device too. All of it stays in my possession until I know what the Andromeda Group plans to do with it."
  "Zoey, please listen to reason here. This is not about the Andromeda Group. This is bigger than that. This is a matter of national security. Don't you get that? If the things you told me are true, if this technology got in the hands of terrorists, enemy states, we'd have no defense. We need to tread very carefully here and follow protocol. Now I've spoken to Stephen Blankenship at headquarters,"
  "Richard, haven't you heard a single word I've said? I planned to come to you, to you specifically, because you're the only person I feel like I can trust, but only after I proved a two-way communication channel could be achieved, effectively preventing a one-way communication channel. This technology is too dangerous as it is now. It's too invasive. Especially in the hands of a large corporation or God forbid the US government."
  "And you know this how?"
  "As I said, I've tested it. I offered to show you."
  "And you will show me, and anyone else, but I need to know everything Zoey, right now. How else am I'm going to represent your interests here, if you don't come clean with me."
  "I can represent my own interest, thanks though."
  "You still don't get it. You used our equipment, our lab, to develop this technology in a clandestine manner, without authorization. You don't own this so-called project Aura. The Andromeda Group does. Your employment contract stipulates as much. Now tell me how exactly you know this technology can be used invasively."
  She sat in her chair, shifting, her eyes looking at the pen cup on his desk, at the plant in the corner, anywhere but at her friend and boss.
  "Zoey, did you use it on me?"
  She looked up and met his eyes, confirming his fear. A look of concern grew on his face.
  "Who else?"
  "An old woman, Janice something, who I hired at the truck stop near 75. I tested it on her."
  "Without her knowledge?"
  "Yes."
  He wrote some notes on a pad near his hand.
  "Who else?"
  "That's it."
  "Zoey."
  "Richard."
  "This is serious. I don't know how the hell the the law will interpret something like this, but it can't be good. You need to come clean. Who else?"
  She was silent and then very plainly said,
  "The president."
  "The president of Andromeda Group?"
  "No."
  "Then which president?" He said, his eyes growing wider. She looked up and met his gaze, confirming his suspicion. He leaned back in the chair, and rubbed his eyes with both hands. He seemed unprepared for the things he was hearing.
  "Zoey. This is treasonous."
  "Don't you get it? Don't you get why I can't hand this technology over just like that. If any entity of power gets hold of this technology they will be unstoppable. They're reach and influence will have no limits. None. And that cannot happen."
  He gave her a look of pure rage.
  "Just who the hell do you think you are? To make that kind of decision. It's not your call to make."
  "I discovered it."
  "But you don't own it!"
  "Neither does Andromeda Group. This is not about who owns what. The technology is not the discovery. The technology is only a way to it."
  "What are you talking about?"
  "The technology, meaning the algorithm and the device, are only amplifiers of a pattern of energy that for all we know has always been there, just dormant. If the Aura stream is fire then the technology is a fan blowing over an ember, at best. Do you see what I mean? It's like what Jonas Salk said when they asked him why didn't he patent the polio vaccine. Would you patent the sun?"
  "Jesus Christ, Zoey. Don't quote Jonas Salk to me like we're still undergrads at Tech."
  "What happened to you?"
  He seemed confused by the question.
  "Nothing happened to me. Life happened. I grew up that's all."
  "Remember when we were undergrads? Those late nights we'd grab pizza and go to the top of A building and stargaze, with the other nerds. Talking shit. Quoting Jonas Salk and all the great things we were going to do in our lives. We used to talk about devoting ourselves to science that would change the world, that would change things for the better, and especially for the less fortunate."
  "Kids talk that way. I was a kid. Dedicating yourself to that kind of altruism hardly pays the bills. And I got bills. I got responsibilities. See these two here?"
  He showed her a photo on his desk of his two children, a boy and girl, taken at a playground.
  "I do the work I do now to make enough money to support them. Kids ain't cheap. But you don't know about that, do you? And the work I do here at Andromeda Group is honorable work. It's interesting work, pushing the envelope of what we can achieve with technology. I resent your insinuation that we aren't doing that here."
  "But its the reason behind the work, its to enrich these companies. Do you think they would invest the money here to help others. No, its ultimately to maintain their position as market leaders, to continue to line the pockets of shareholders."
  "What's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with that? Stop looking at the world in such a black and white terms. I swear, sometimes its like you reached college age - that age where everything is fuck the man and everything is hypocrisy, that you failed to grow up beyond that. You know what happens when you dedicate your work to altruism like you say? You go broke, move into your parents basement, complaining on message boards about how the man got you down. The real truth is that life is about survival and money represents value in this world. To maximize the reach of your impact you have to be practical, you have to make sure that the things you work on, that you dedicate yourself to, make money. Get real, Zoey. It's time for you to grow up."
  "You may be right. I probably do have a lot of growing up to do. But whenever I am in this place and see that everyone limits their ideas only to those ideas which have an assured monetary value, I feel like I'm in a box. By being so practical we've shut ourselves in a box. For so long now that we don't even dream of anything outside the box. Or we do dream but even those dreams are bounded within the box. Nice, safe dreams, where everyone lives in a house and has a car and goes on vacations to Florida every summer. And I think back to when I was truly free to wonder and follow every crazy idea that came into my head. Not because it might earn me a living but because I was curious. And I can't help thinking that something has been lost. And I want to get it back. I want to explore those ideas, even dangerous ones. Ideas that could change the world forever."
  "You mean destroy the world. Because an idea like project Aura could do that, you know. Once a technology like this is unleashed to human beings, none of our institutions would stand."
  "Maybe its time for that to happen. There's a reason I discovered the Aura when I did. I'm not special. Maybe this is like Darwin discovering evolution at the same time other scientists were also discovering it. Maybe its just time for this world to be destroyed. And if not by project Aura, then maybe someone else is on the verge of discovering the same kind of technology, or already has."
  "Do you hear what you're saying? I don't want the world to be destroyed. Its not perfect, but this is the world we live in. We have an obligation to make it better."
  "I'm not disagreeing with that. When I say destroy what I mean is evolve. Change is inevitable. Maybe we're finally moving past the stage where people and states acted independently. And all those systems which profit from things the way they are, maybe its time for them to go away."
  "You mean the economy? Government? Law enforcement? Infrastructure? I want my kids to know they have a future. Not this hypothetical world where everybody does what's right because they see the other guy's point of view, or whatever this new age horseshit you're babbling about. The world is not such a bad place. I mean its given you a job, the time to work on this side project."
  "The world isn't a bad place for us. We're educated men and women living in the most prosperous country in the world. But for most people the world is rotten. And it needs to change. And this could be that change. But to hand this technology to corporations or our government when its potential has not even been realized would be a huge mistake."
  "Why are you so angry at the world? What did it ever do to you? What did it ever take from you, to cause you to want its destruction so bad? I mean on a personal level. I don't want to hear any more philosophizing."
  "For one, it took away my friends. I watched the world take them away from me, one by one. And it broke my heart to see it happen. Look at what happened to you. There was a time when we were so close, man. There was a time when we talked about important things, God, the universe, society, art, truth. Now everything is money and business. Business and money. We used to talk about the things that really matter in life. And it was good while it lasted. I thought it would always be that. I took it for granted. That was how life should be, the way we were then, creative and pointless and free. Because its in those times of pointless creativity that our minds are free to go places where logic and rationality can never get to, because its dangerous, because its unexplored."
  "Money has given me freedom, Zoey. Money provides you with that freedom that you claim to value so much. With money you aren't beholden to an employer. You aren't beholden to anyone. You can say fuck you at any time and walk away. And what about having the ability to help others with my money? I paid off my parents house last year. Could I have done that without money? I was able to give them freedom. Do you think the research in this facility, not to mention the research you've done, could have happened without capital from the Andromeda Group? Money and business are what allows to dream big and to make those dreams real. That's just the way it is. I pity you because you stopped growing up, before you could realize that finding the balance between dreams and practicality is the greatest wisdom in life. I also still have dreams you know. Just because you have money doesn't mean you can't have dreams. I want to be a better person than I was yesterday. I want to make things that will someday change the world for the better. But everything happens in its proper place and time. And sometimes practical concerns in life take precedence. And that's okay."
  "Betraying your dreams doesn't happen in one fell swoop, you know. It happens slowly, over many years, as more and more of your life is taken up by those practical concerns, until one day you turn around and you're trapped inside the box, and then it starts to close in around you, constricting not only your ability to dream, but also what you are able to dream. That goes for companies like the Andromeda Group. You say money gives you freedom, but what about the freedom to give up money? Are you free do that? Or does more money tighten its grip you even more and enslave you to it, to do whatever it commands you to do. To serve it."
  "Enough Zoey, I can't listen to this nonsense anymore. You know what? Get real. You sound like you're reading a goddamn poem and it makes me want to throw up. Join me back on planet Earth, why don't you? All this woo-woo talk doesn't change the fact that we live in the real world and its not going anywhere anytime soon. It doesn't change the fact that you are in violation of your employment contract. And that the Andromeda Group owns the technology you developed. And as far as one-way channel, two-way channel, too bad. You will hand over your research, your computer, the device, and anything else and the Andromeda Group will decide what's useful and what isn't. Do you understand?"
  The door to the office opened and two men entered, dressed in dark suits. Richard stood up, nodded to them, as if he had been expecting them all along. She stood up, facing the two men and headed towards the door. The two men approached her and each one gripped her arms. She struggled and kicked one of them in the shin. They were too strong. They sat her down in the chair again. Richard tried not to watch. Eventually he spoke again, unable to look her in the eye.
  "We need the computer. We need the device. And we need you to show us your research and how to use the algorithm."
  "Who do these guys work for? Who are they?"
  He would not answer her questions.
  "Why are they here?"
  Again the office in front of his eyes disintegrated into a million pieces and he found himself alone in a room, in a house. There was a window with sunlight shining through the linen curtains. This was a bedroom. The bed was made, with white pillows and a pink blanket. On the bed were dolls. On the floor next to the bed was a heater, its red coils radiating warmth. On the wall were posters of rock stars and drawings of unicorns and rainbows. He looked at himself in the vanity mirror at the other end of the room, next to a standing closet. His image was distorted and detracted, as if looking at someone underwater. On the vanity he saw a notebook computer with wires connected to it, attached to a wired headset he did not recognize. The notebook seemed to him incongruous with the rest of the room, which looked like a young girl's room. The door to the room was closed. He went to it and turned the knob slowly, unsure what he would find on the other side. A living room. Nothing unusual. A small 19 inch television on a wooden cabinet, a couch with tears in the cushions. To the right was an open area that led to the kitchen. On the kitchen table there were pizza boxes, wrapping paper, scissors. It looked as if someone had been here recently though there was no indication of anyone in the house now.
  "Zoey?"
  He walked to another door, towards the back of the living room. He opened the door and saw a queen sized bed, nearly filling the space. The bed was unkempt, there were clothes on the floor. Another floor heater, not turned on. On the walls in this room were store-bought paintings of meadows and mountains, covering the exposed concrete brick. He returned to the living and called out her name again. No answer. If she had been here she wasn't now. He felt strange, as if he remembered this place from many years ago, with the same butterflies in the pit of the stomach feeling which accompanies revisiting such a place. And then he heard people outside. A lot of people from the sound of it, having conversations, laughing. And then a woman burst in through the door in the kitchen, a gust of the cold breeze and a few dried leaves followed her in. She was a black woman, young, singing to herself. When she saw him standing in the living room  she was not surprised, she merely smiled and nodded to him. Then  went to the refrigerator and pulled out a layer cake with strawberry frosting, a single candle in the shape of the number eight on top. She set the cake on the table and covered the top with rainbow-colored sprinkles from a small bottle. She went to the door but it had closed. He saw she would have difficulty opening the door with her hands full, so he ran over to open it for her. She said thanks and went outside.
  He followed her around the side of the house to the front yard. It was a birthday party. The birthday girl was wearing a white dress and was running around with her friends, playing a game of tag. The guests were the parents of the children, standing around with cups of fruit punch, eating pepperoni pizza on paper plates. The theme of the party was Duck Dodgers in the 24th Century and all the plates and cups were decorated with imagery from the cartoon, Duck Dodgers himself, Marvin the Martian, rocket ships, space stations, planets. Everything except the cake, which was just pink strawberry, a request from the birthday girl.
  "Zoey, come on baby. We need to sing happy birthday so you can open your presents."
  Her mother lit the candle as Zoey and the other children sat down in chairs around the table. The adults gathered hovered over their children and made them calm down to get ready to sing. One of the parents handed him the Polaroid camera and asked if he would take a photo, she was distracted by having to clean her son's shirt, which had fruit punch all over it. He took the camera and stood back away from the table. Her father came over and together with her mother they began to sing Happy Birthday, with everyone else joining in. She looked around as they sang, very happy and proud. Then when the song was over she took a deep breath and at the same moment he readied the camera and took a photo right as she blew the candle out.
  Everyone clapped. The white film rolled out of the front of the camera and he took it and held it delicately to not smudge the print. Slowly the image faded from white to beige and then you could start to recognize the shapes in the photo and then more color filled in the shapes, pale at first, then darker and darker. He walked over to her parents, who were getting out plates and plastic forks for the cake and ice cream, and handed them the photo. Her mother took the photo and set it on the porch to fully develop. Zoey glanced up at him from her seat in front of the cake and smiled a snaggle-toothed grin. Before her mother took the knife to the cake, she pulled out the candle and only then did he see written on top with blue frosting the words, "Help Me".