
12

  He was sitting on the bed in the hotel room, in the late afternoon, the device in his hands, the computer screen in front of him lighting up his face. He stared at the photograph of the birthday party, her about to blow out the candles, and even now he could feel the excitement of that moment, he felt her anticipation as if it were his own. He went to the sink and washed his face. A little of the nauseous feeling remained so he lay on the bed until it went away. All the things he had seen and heard and felt during their communion went through his mind. But one thing that he kept returning was the computer in the house, the old house where the birthday party happened, in the small bedroom. It was out of place in a conspicuous way. Remembering a detail from the Aura notes, he turned the computer screen towards him. He found the notes again and scanned them until he found the passage he was looking for.

	She told me about her family, how her daddy had left when she was only five years old. Turns out she grew up in house in Shannon village. Not that far from the house I grew up in. Life is funny man.

  Looking at the photograph again, this time focusing on the background details, he noted the number of the house. 1293. The only other detail of significance was a powder blue water tower above the tree line in the distance across the street. Too far away to make out the writing on it. But maybe that was enough.
  In the Maps application he turned on GPS satellite data and zoomed in over Shannon, a part of town north of downtown. Eventually he did find an old water tower but it was painted green. He couldn't find another. He made a guess at how far away you'd be able to see the tower and marked a radius. He clicked around the neighborhoods to find a house number like the one on the house but could find nothing. There was still enough daylight to drive up there and see what he could discover himself. On a pad near the telephone he jotted down the street names where he needed to drive. He packed up the computer and device into the backpack and headed out the door.
  Headed north he kept a paranoid eye on the rearview mirror. He passed the jailhouse and the Dodge dealership and drove five miles to Shannon. When he turned into the main road through the village, 1st street, he looked out for the road that would take him to the water tower. Ten minutes later he was there, the pine green water tower surrounded by a rusted chain link fence. 
  He took a side road near the water tower and drove to the cross street that marked the outer edge of the radius. From there he drove down the streets, looking for anything like the house in the photograph or in the communion. This was a poor neighborhood with its best days clearly behind. The cotton mill which supported the community had shuttered ten years ago. He knew that because it had been one of the few good places to work. He passed a group of kids playing ball in the street. They glared at him as he went by and continued to stare after he had passed.
  As he drove he looked over the trees to see what the tower looked like. Most of the time he couldn't see it at all, which made him doubt his radius. But as he turned into streets closer to the tower he began to see it. Only the top at first but then more and more of it. And eventually it looked a lot like in the photograph and he knew he was in the right place, if it even was the same water tower.
  It was late and the sky was orange and the clouds in the sky were blue and gray. He was not sure he would even be able to see the house by now. He turned down the next road, barely making out the sign before he turned. It was a narrow street, nearly one lane. But it was open, the trees were less dense, and so there was more light to see by. And then he spotted a house on a small hill. The yard was overgrown and the house itself was in disrepair, but despite that he recognized it as the same one, at least from a distance. He pulled into the gravel road next to the hill and stopped the car. He got out and found the water tower in roughly the same place it was in the photo.
  He approached the house with caution, deciding to walk around the back first. The windows of the house were either boarded or covered with plastic. On the front porch was a sign that read _No Trespassing_. The surface of the house was molded and covered with lichen. Black, damp leaves on the ground surrounded the place. He spotted the side door which he had held open for her mother during the birthday party. There was a board over the door, nailing it shut. Out the back window was a thick cord which ran into the ground. He pulled it up and followed its direction and figured it went to the nearest power line by the road. He went to the window and peered inside. He saw broken furniture and dishes on the floor. Nothing else.
  Once he had walked around the entire house he tried to find the best way in. Of course the front door was locked. He knocked on it just to see if he could hear anyone inside. But there was no answer and no stirring inside. By now it was dusk. He found a window where the plastic was torn and was able to fit himself through and entered into the living room.
  "Zoey?"
  It was silent.
  The door to the her bedroom was closed. From the crack at the bottom of the door he could see light inside. He went to the door and knocked. No answer. He pushed open the door and entered. There was nobody here. A notebook computer was on top of a milk crate. Next to the computer were wires and another makeshift device, but without being affixed underneath a knitted hat. On the floor was a small camping air mattress and a blanket, a small pillow. Next to the window was a small element heater. It glowed a bright orange color and radiated an intense heat he could feel from where he stood. The black cord he had seen from outside came from this room, no doubt how she was getting power for her computer and heater.
  He called through the house, wanting to be sure he was alone. The last thing he wanted to do was frighten her. He checked the remaining spaces, the whole place was fallen apart, boxes and leaves on the floor. Cold and empty. He returned to the bedroom.  On the computer he found evidence that this was the computer used to message him. He wondered if maybe she had gone somewhere.
  In the living room he found a particle board entertainment center lying on its side and used that as a chair. In his pocket he found the burner phone he had used to contact the ones following him. He had never responded to their texts about the meeting. There were eleven unread messages and he went through them all.
  
  3:00pm: Where and when would you like to meet?
  3:01pm: Please reply soon
  3:17pm: We have the money, need where and when
  3:41pm: Let us know as soon as you can
  4:28pm: Please reply soon
  4:55pm: Please reply soon
  5:33pm: Do as we say or things will be bad for you
  6:02pm: Do as we say or things will be bad for you
  6:31pm: Do as we say or things will be bad for you
  6:45pm: Do as we say or things will be bad for you
  7:04pm: Do as we say or things will be bad for you
  
  The last he received while reading the others. The screen lit up and vibrated, making his heart jump. He had to get rid of this phone soon. But not here. He thought to send a message to give him more time but erased it at the last minute and stuck the phone back in his pocket. It was very cold in the living room. Now that it was dark outside the temperature had dropped below freezing. He breathed visible air and put his hands in his pocket. Then outside he heard a vehicle pull into the driveway and saw light coming through the tarp. A door slamming and moments later footsteps on the gravel.
  He went to the front window and peered through the cracks in the boards. The only light on the street was down a ways and it cast amber onto the overgrown grass but nowhere else, not on the driveway itself. And then he heard leaves crunching in the yard. If it was her where would she enter. The side door was boarded up. The front door was the only one that still looked functional. But whoever it was had not come up the porch. He turned facing the living room so he could hear better any sounds from outside but now there were no sounds.
  The last thing he wanted to do was scare her. He decided to stand there and wait, hands up, plainly visible, to show that he meant her no harm. Soon he heard fidgeting at the back of the house, the rattling sound of metal on metal, metal on wood. Then a beam from a flashlight fell over the kitchen walls, wavering unsteadily, from somewhere behind the cupboard, a hidden entrance maybe. He heard a person shuffle out and cleared his throat very calmly. The flashlight beam instantly moved to where he stood in the middle of the living room.
  "Zoey."
  He addressed her calmly.
  "You asked me for help."
  He continued since there had been no answer from her. The light shone brightly onto his face. It did not move from there, nor did the person move or make any sound.
  "So I found you."
  Then the flashlight clicked off and the next thing he knew something very hard and very heavy hitting his side. He fell to the floor, the wind knocked out of him. And in the next moment someone was on him. Heavy. Big. Not a woman. He felt an intense pain in his jaw and then on the side of his head. He saw stars and heard muffled growls of anger. And then more hits came. He clenched his legs around the torso of the person on top of him and used all his leverage to heave them off. He stumbled backwards onto his feet and smacked into the wall. He was disoriented but knew the general direction of the attacker.
  "Hold up a damn minute! Who are you? I'm looking for Zoey Jackson. Does she live here?"
  He heard the person shuffling back into the kitchen. On hands and knees from the sound of it.
  "Turn on a Goddamn light in here so you can see I don't mean you no trouble. My hands are raised. You don't have to worry about me."
  In the next moment he heard the same growling, a wet gargle, as if from a rabid animal or something with a diseased mind. And then a tortured scream and the sound of something in the darkness rushing towards him. He dove behind the entertainment center and heard the other collide with the wall. On the floor he found a sharpened sliver from a glass pane and brandished it like a knife.
  "I don't want to hurt you but you're not leaving me any choice."
  He took off in the direction of the kitchen. The other must have heard him because in a moment he felt two arms clutch him around the waist and tackle him to the floor. In response he sliced in that direction with all his strength and felt the blade hook into flesh. Then there was a howling in his ear, the voice inhuman. And not long after that he felt teeth sinking into his neck. He twisted and lurched his body to break free but the other was too heavy, and stronger than him.
  The pain from his wound grew in intensity and he felt his own rage growing and lashed out with punches and scratches. He cursed him and felt murder inside him. Their weight of their struggle broke the entertainment center and bashed into the walls and corners. Each attempting to get the upper hand in the struggle. As his eyes became more accustomed to the darkness he tried to see who this person was but could make out no detail. At some point they stood and he rushed the man and pushed him against the door into the bedroom with the computer. As they collapsed into the room their feet got caught on the wires and pulled the device and notebook to the floor where the screen cracked into a abstract rainbow of digital light. He grabbed one of those black wires and jerked it from the machine and attempted to wind it around his neck. The other grabbed ahold and pulled it away, punching him in the kidney with his free hand. The jolt caused him to let the wire go and the other man grabbed it and did the same to his neck, yanking it taut.
  As he felt the wire tighten around his neck his vision grew dim and then when he breathed out nothing came and when he breathed in also nothing came and then he panicked. He kicked both feet to try to get free and saw stars appearing at the corner of his eyes. And then the murder he had felt growing inside him exploded into rage and he found the strength to pry the wire loose. He bit down hard on those fingers and felt his incisors hit the bone. A yowl from the other man and he was free, the blood of his adversary on his tongue. As the other stumbled backwards he toppled the element heater onto the mattress. Moments later black smoke started to fill the room. But now that the rage had come he was not concerned with any instincts of self-preservation. He pinned the man against the wall and feeling weakness in him only increased his fury. He heard himself let out an enraged scream, like the scream from a wounded hyena, and he was simultaneously aware of it and the one doing it and then all went dark as pitch and he remembered nothing else after.
  Before he opened his eyes he could feel the heat from the flames in the room and see the orange light from behind his eyelids. And he came around and opened his eyes and the mattress fire had spread up the wall and ceiling. His hair was singed from his head and his skin was boiling from the radiant heat in the room. He smelled meat and saw beside him the horror that remained of the other man. He saw the pool of blood and innards spilled onto the floor, sizzling on the tiles, and the face of the man now unrecognizable, shredded, chewed. He saw blood on his arms and tasted blood and hair and even flesh on his tongue. He stumbled to his feet and left the room, spitting and crying.
  The house was engulfed in flames and the heat from it was unbearable. He dodged his way past fire and cinder falling from the ceiling and went to the kitchen and with a single kick broke through the wooden barricade and found himself outside on the ground, rolling in the cold leaves, trying to get away from the heat but unable to since it was himself who was burning. He lay on the ground, past the point of pain because his burns were so great. He was unable to turn to watch the house burn but could see the light reflected on the branches of the Maple tree overhead. Drifting in and out of consciousness he heard a distance sound of sirens. He forced himself to his feet and hobbled into the woods nearby and hid in the brush and watched the firetruck arrive and douse the flames until it was all wet ash and scorched brick, smoke rising from the embers. Ambulance and police arrived but there was nothing for them to do. None of them approached the woods where he observed. His mind was delirious and he wondered if he had also brain damage his thoughts were so hazy and unclear. The only thing he knew for sure was that it would be bad to be discovered here. Now that he was safe he lay back among the dead leaves and fallen branches lost consciousness. Already the burns on his body were beginning to ache in the frigid air and he knew it would only get worse from here on out. He didn't sleep but drifted between waking and sleeping for the next few hours, until he was awoken by a vibrating in his jacket pocket. With great difficulty he was able to remove the burner phone and unlock it. He studied the words on the screen for a long time, not taking it in, not understanding, but really not concerned either. It was as sensible as anything else really but the words remained in his dreaming mind until dawn, the letters spinning out of themselves to create new letters which were the same as before.
  
  Now come back
  