
13

  Frost covered the pile of limbs and leaves that had been his shelter the night before. The sky above was morning gray, low clouds going by, a cold front which had moved in the night before. He lay curled in a position where the pain from his burns was bearable enough to lose consciousness for awhile. It could not have been considered sleep because there was no rest. He awoke from the pain of his burns. His blistered hands reached to his face and felt unfamiliar welts and a rough texture where his hair used to be. A few minutes after that he began to feel the sting of the cold all over his body, especially in his fingers. It took some time before he was able to get to his feet, the pain from moving his limbs was almost too much to bear. He peeled leaves from the raw areas which were the skin had peeled. He zipped up the jacket which was also burned in places and began to walk.
  In this direction the woods were parallel to the main road. Nearby he could hear morning traffic but he was too far away to see it, or to be seen, which was really the point. He trudged over the limbs and twigs and leaves which made up the bed of the winter forest, creating a lot of racket. But he was not troubled. He was not hiding or running, not anymore. He was going back.
  Later in the day the clouds opened up and bright rays of sunlight broke through. The rays came down onto him, warming the wounds and made the agony of the pain worse for him. So he kept to the dark part of the woods, where there was a canopy of tree limbs entwined together. Sometimes there was no path but through the light and he had to wait for the clouds to darken the way again. Like this he walked all afternoon until the sun was low enough so that it no longer entered the woods and he could walk without fear of it. Four miles he covered this first day.
  It was dusk and he no longer had the energy to walk. He found a spot in a ditch that had been dug to some purpose a long time ago, exposing the red dirt which lay underneath the colorless trees. He gathered leaves and covered himself with them in the ditch and rested his head on a pillow of loosened dirt and leaves he had crafted. He was very tired. The pain and walking and lack of any food or anything to drink had drained him. For that reason the makeshift bed really was a comfortable place, warm enough, and aside from the constant aching from his wounds he went to sleep at last.
  He was awoken in the middle of the night by something hot on the skin of his head. At first he wondered if it was just a dream but as his consciousness lifted he also heard breathing and then something wet and then a painful bite. He jerked up and heard growling very close to him. By moonlight he saw it, watching him, encircling the ditch where he slept with interest.
  "Go on!"
  But it didn't move.
  "Get!"
  For what seemed like several minutes the beast watched him from a safe distance. At times it appeared it was losing interest, sniffing the ground instead, and the tightness in his chest relaxed, but then its would head tilt back in his direction and became interested in something else about him. At last he lost patience and started growling at it, raising his arms above his head like a grizzly bear. In answer to that, the animal knelt low to the ground, ears back against its head, and growled, teeth bared, and then a short bark. And it leapt.
  By instinct he locked both arms in front of him and when its collided with him his hands wrapped around its throat, anything to keep those jaws away from his neck where he knew it would go, also by instinct. He no longer felt the stings from his burns as he struggled in the dark. Its legs found a solid place on the ground and pushed against him until his back gave way and he fell onto his back in a much more vulnerable position. Moments would come when somethings savage in the animal would break free and he could no longer hold it back, the strength and rage too much. Unlike his struggle in the house he himself felt no anger towards the beast. Just fear that it would not stop until he was dead and that he didn't have the strength to fight it off forever. So his own instincts of self-preservation awoke and he dropped one of his arms to the ground beside him, feeling on the ground for something, anything to give himself an advantage in the fight. Somehow he got to his feet and backed into the brush nearby. He felt on the ground and found a stone half-buried and without any hesitation he turned sideways and grasped the stone with both hands and heaved it out and over his head, bringing it down with all his strength onto its head. Limp, it fell to the ground and did not move. For a few minutes he stood in the same spot and caught his breath, and then once the adrenaline began to leave him he felt the burning pain start again. And now with that the bite wounds from the animal. He bled in places on his hands and arms and did his best to apply pressure to them, but it only made things worse.
  From the position of the moon in the sky he figured it must be only a couple hours until dawn. If he started again now he would have time to cross the road and enter the woods on the other side, which was the same side of the road as his destination. With trouble he started walking again, the aches from his wounds, now crusting over, hurt him the most at his joints. But he knew if he could at least get to the other side of the road it would be better. People could not see him like this. They would call the police and then he could not get there.
  He went south where the woods became sparse and he could see the road. He emerged from the woods into the clearing and felt immediately vulnerable. Anyone could see him here even though there was not much light from the street lamps. He made sure no cars were coming and started across, limping from the pain, breathing heavily. Up the road a car turned in his direction and sped that way. The car approached before he could get out of the way and only stopped at the last minute, screeching the tires. The woman inside the car was angry, banging on her steering wheel, until she saw his face and arms and then her eyes widened and became fearful. He looked at her but kept limping his way across the road. As soon as he passed the car it sped away, its tail lights casting him in a red glow.
  Now across he re-entered the woods and kept walking, eastward. These woods were less dense and so easier to traverse. It was far to the place he was going so he kept his head down and trudged through his pain and fatigue and increasing delirium. At moments he would forget where he was going and even where he was but it would always come back very strong, almost a voice, reminding him. And then at last the woods ended and he saw a tall chain link fence, maybe ten feet high, and beyond it a vast parking lot, weeds coming up through the dried pavement, and beyond it the ruins of the General Electric plant, a place that had been closed for nearly a quarter of a century. Its massive structure a combination of red brick and aluminum, now faded, and horizontal bands of windows, broken in places, also translucent with age.
  He considered his options for some time but realized at last he was going to have to climb the fence. He took some breaths and grabbed onto the links and pulled himself up. His wounds split underneath his shirt and he could feel the blood running up his arm. He ignored the pain and climbed as fast as he could. At the top he flung his leg over but it caught on the pipe and he lost his balance but re-caught it and the second time it went over. He rested for a moment while straddling the fence and caught his breath, then climbed down into the parking lot. The moon was low in the sky and the sky itself, gray with wisps of pink clouds and an orange haze on the horizon.
  
  
