
14

  The room itself had no light source but in the corridor just beyond was a fixture which bathed his surroundings in a sickly,  fluorescent haze. He sat upright on the hard table that had been his bed. His face and arms and most of his body was wrapped in fresh bandages. And on the shelves in the room he saw various kinds of medical equipment and boxes of medicine and surgical supplies. There was nothing in the room to indicate to him the time of day. He couldn't tell if it was day or night or some time in between. He was not in pain anymore and he wondered how long he had been in this place. It was utterly silent. He placed his feet on the floor and exercised the joints in his arms and legs and neck. No pain moving either. He felt the bandages on his arms. His fingers were exposed and he could see the burns had mostly healed had had left behind scar tissue where the real skin used to be. The bandages covered most of his face, only exposing his eyes and a small slit for the mouth. Because of this he found it hard to breathe. And now that he was conscious he started to feel itching inside the bandages. And sweating. On a metal stand nearby he found a small pair of scissors. In the corner at the back of the room was a small sink with a mirror over it. He went to the sink and using the mirror to guide him he snipped loose the top-most strap and began to unravel the head bandage.
  As it came off he watched with increasing horror at what was underneath. No more did hair grow on his head. It was now polished like an egg from some strange alien being, pockmarked and mottled in shades of pink and brown. He quickly unwrapped the remaining and saw that his entire face looked this way. No more eye brows or facial hair. His nose was disfigured. The only part of his old self he recognized at all was the eyes. Those were the same. They welled with tears at what he had become and inside he felt his old life slipping away from him in a way that seemed permanent and without any hope. He saw Joseph and Suzanne and imagined with great pain how they would look at him now.
  He sat back on the table and cried into his hands as he thought about, _My life is ruined. I can't never go out in the sunlight again_. And he remembered all the times before when he was out of doors, surrounded by his neighbors in the backyard or at the grocery store, and how he had taken it for granted and how he wished he could experience that feeling one more time in his life. But he knew it would never be that way again. And the guilt he felt that it was his doing. That he had done all this to himself and how he had let the ones down who meant the most to him.
  A siren sounded from somewhere in the building. He barely heard it as a siren at first but after focusing his attention on it he knew it must be that. And once he was out of his own head he became curious about his surroundings and began to wonder where he was and how long he had been there and most importantly what he was doing there. He knew none of these things. Vaguely he could remember the struggle at the house, the fire, the escape into the woods. But nothing past that, except walking.
  Not long after that the siren ceased and it was quiet again. He found his shoes in a closet and put them on. Then he went into the corridor and followed it in the only direction he could go, being that his room was at the end of a hallway. There were other doors in the corridor but they were locked. It was very dark and smelled of must and mold. The air was damp and heavy and he found it difficult to breathe in. The corridor had a few turns to the left and right and finally opened into a large space, which to him looked like an old factory floor, empty now. The ceiling was caved in the center and support beams and insulation and wiring hung down. And stacked at the other end of the area were boxes. Hundreds of small cardboard boxes with a symbol he recognized, an X with a circle through the middle of it. But still there was nobody here. No activity of any kind that he could discern. There were windows high up on the walls, painted over but he could see a dim blue light, like when you put your hand in front of a fire and your hand lets a little of the light through. So it was daylight.
  He approached the stacks of boxes and picked one of them up. It was heavy but made no sound when he shook the box. As he was about to open one of them he heard something far off. It was not the siren this time. It was lower in tone. A generator maybe. Some kind of machine. That much he could tell. And it was running. He left the box and noticed an opened gate leading into another area. It was so dark in that side of the space he had not seen it before. In the next area was a large and complicated machine but it was not the one that was running. It hung from the ceiling and almost but not quite reached the ground. It reminded him of an mechanical snake though he could not say why. Next to it was a set of stairs leading up to a platform with grating and a control box. And just like the other area this area also led to another. One thing that troubled him was the light was decreasing the further he went inside. But there seemed nowhere else for him to go.
  The sound of the machine grew louder. His footsteps echoed across the opposite wall as he splashed through standing puddles of water. He passed workbenches, desks, cabinets. It was hard not to imagine the way it used to be when there were people who worked here day in and day out, 9 to 5, talking about what they did over the weekend while sipping coffee, talking about big finale of the ball game on TV, about who got that coveted promotion and who got passed over. At the end of this area, which appeared to be used for clerical work, was a massive sliding gate. It was opened enough for a person to get through. Here the grinding mechanical sound was at its loudest, increasing to the point where he couldn't hear himself even if he had shouted. He went through the gate.
  Once inside he had to cover his ears to stop the roaring in his ears. He felt like his eardrums were about to burst from the incessant humming, droning, and grinding of the industrial systems spread before him, towering over him. On a wall he found a box filled with neon green ear plugs. Once he fit them in his ears it dulled the noise so that it at least didn't hurt. He continued to walk down the main walkway. And he saw people, lots of them. And at last he thought he could get some answers.
  The first person he saw was a woman who wore the same kind of coveralls as him. She was older, with curly hair and a cigarette smokers face. She was on a high platform, monitoring gauges. Because she was too far away he didn't attempt to make any contact with her. But the next person, a man again in the same uniform he wore, approached walking in the opposite direction. He stopped and tried to catch the man's attention but the man never looked in his direction at all, even when he waved his arms. And then he was gone.
  This happened two other times, one with a Mexican woman who also passed him and one more time with an elderly man at work on some equipment down a section off the main walkway. But with the elderly man he walked up and waved his arms right in his face, not two inches from his nose, but the old man never once acknowledged his presence. This made him angry so he reached out and grabbed the man by the shoulders and forced him to look him directly in the eyes. The worker gave no resistance to this, and stood facing him, but his eyes never would make contact, never registered that they saw another human being at all. The old man just stared blankly, like a statue, and when he was let go of he went back to his work as if nothing had happened.
  The further he walked the more spaced out the machinery became until the area opened into a central area. So vast was this space that he couldn't even see the ceiling. The lights on stands did not reach that far so anything from thirty feet or higher vanished into the shadows. The most light in this open area was on a long, wide conveyor belt. It carried some kind of product that had been formed within the bowels of the machinery in a predictable, rhythmic pattern, like a beating heart. Dozens of workers stood on either side of the conveyor. As the product moved down the line they took hold of it and performed distinct tasks. Once he came closer he watched them manipulating that gelatinous mass the color of petroleum crude, with flecks of a rare metallic substance inside. He could not tell what it was or what in the world it could be used for, but the workers plied at it with a grave seriousness of purpose.
  Once the product had made it down the conveyor line, it was packaged into those same boxes he had seen in the other area of the plant. And once a pallet of those boxes had been filled, it was wrapped with plastic and the man who completed the wrapping gave an OK signal to a tiny, lighted room overlooking the entire area, atop a rusted metal platform. The man standing in this room caught his attention at once. It seemed to him this man could be the one to tell him what was going on. He was sure of it though he could not explain why. The room was accessible only from a set of a tiered stairway, so narrow it could only accommodate a single person at a time. Immediately he began the ascent, holding onto the rails. When he reached the building he knocked on the door. No answer came from inside, nobody came to greet him. He turned the knob and found it unlocked.
  He was the only person there. The room was not large enough for anyone to hide. All it contained was a board of controls and monitors and a chair and a small table. On the table was a tiny plant in a terra cotta pot. The plant was withered, browning at the ends of its leaves, the soil bone dry. Next to the pot was a pitcher of water filled to the brim. At that moment a buzzer lit up on the control board. He went to the board and pushed the button to silence it. Down at the end of the conveyor another pallet was full. The man who wrapped the pallet gave him an OK sign. He pulled the large lever and a claw arm reached down from the blackness where there was no light. The claw picked up the pallet and set it on the back of a truck bed and then retracted into the darkness. It was only then he had a moment to return to the plant on the table. He supposed he was drawn to it because it was the only other living thing in the room. He looked at it for several moment but didn't take a single step away from the control board.
  "Water the plant if you like."
  The voice startled him. It seemed very close to him, but somehow not in the room. He looked for a loud speaker. Could see nothing like that. But it did have a sound like what comes from a loud speaker, thin and distorted. He went to the plant and picked up the pitcher, spilling water on the table. But at the same time the alarm on the control board sounded and also this time there was a flashing red light over one of the gauges. It was serious. He sat the pitcher down and went to the controls. On the floor workers were scrambling to repair the conveyor. Something appeared to be lodged it the gears. He silenced the alarm and when he received the OK signal he pushed a button, at which point the conveyor started up again.
  "Can you hear me?"
  He asked the room.
  "We can."
  "Who are you? What is this place? Why am I here? I want to know what's going on."
  "There may have been some confusion."
  "I am confused. I woke up in a room, wrapped in bandages, and now I'm here at work."
  "That's right, you're here. At work. But when we said there may have been some confusion we didn't mean your confusion about who we are and what this place is and why you are here. What we meant was there was confusion about your role here. Because your role is not to ask questions. Your role is to obey."
  "To hell with you. I'm my own man. You don't know me."
  "But we do know you. We have been watching you for some time now. We know you very well by now. We know you sell drugs. We know you found the computer and the Aura device and used it for your own gain. To steal and rape and even murder. Do you deny those things about yourself?"
  "You know about the device? How? Who are you guys?"
  "We are those who decide and you are he who obeys the decisions and does not question them."
  "Quit saying that stupid shit. You don't own me. I can speak my mind. How do you know the things I done?"
  "We know them. That is the most important thing. Do you deny that you robbed the man in the Super 8, that you raped the woman in Avalon, or that you murdered the husband of your ex-wife in the old Jackson home?"
  "I don't deny those things."
  "Say you did them. We want to hear you say it."
  "I did those things. Happy now?"
  "Would you like to hear what happened to the girl and mother of the man you robbed, because you robbed him? Because something did happen"
  "I don't want to hear that."
  "But you will. The woman was forced to have sex with strange men even more than she was before. He sold her to anyone who would pay cash. To men who abused her in ways inhuman. And there was a particular night she had enough and took a knife she kept hidden under the mattress and stabbed an abusive customer in the face twenty three times. He died in the emergency room. She was arrested for this and sent to jail. She'll be there for a long time. She'll never see her daughter again."
  "I can't listen to any more of this. It's too horrible."
  "Do you know why she'll never see her daughter again?"
  "Stop. Please."
  "The little girl was upset that her mother went to jail and the father got tired of hearing her cry so one night he twisted her arm behind her back and threw her against the wall of the hotel. The impact broke three vertebrae and severed her spine. She was placed in foster care but it will be difficult if not impossible to find a home for her, being that she's lost all feeling from the waist down. She'll never walk again and can't ever have children of her own, from the injuries she sustained. And you played a part in that sequence of events. You admitted it. How does it feel to know that?"
  "Oh, God. Stop talking, please."
  "It's only the truth. What about the woman at Avalon, would you like to hear about her?"
  He did not answer. And the voice continued.
  "She was a mother of two boys. Unhappily married but she had been in counseling with her husband and things were getting better. She was at Avalon to buy an anniversary gift for him, in fact. They had made a vow to one another to not keep each other in the dark and to be honest with their feelings. After your night together she was distraught. She was not wrong to think this might be the straw that finally breaks the camels back and she couldn't deal with that. The guilt of what she did was too much and she drove her SUV into the side of tractor trailer on the interstate and died from her injuries. How does it feel to know that? Answer us."
  "It don't feel good."
  "We don't need to tell you about James. What you did to him."
  "No."
  "But did you know that Suzanne is pregnant? That might be news to you. And now she will have to support both her unborn baby and Joseph. Poor Joseph."
  "Don't you talk about my boy. You don't talk about him. Not to me. I love my boy. I always loved him like a father should love his son. I may not be a good person but you can't take that away from me. I love him with all my heart. And I always will."
  "Has it ever occurred to you that love of offspring is something we share with many animals? Furthermore, this love you feel is chemistry, an evolutionary trait of our biology to enable the survival of the species. That's all it is, this love you feel for your boy. By this measure you are no better than a dog."
  "That's not true. You're twisting it, somehow. It's more than that. I know it is."
  "One thing we should make clear, because we think it may have been lost in the conversation. We don't blame you for anything you've done, or for who you are as a person. We forgive you. Or rather we never had a need to forgive because we expected nothing better from you. Nothing more than who you are. The only thing we expect is that you obey."
  "I see now how it is."
  "Do you? We are not sure. Tell us what you see now. We need to hear you say it aloud."
  He stood for a moment, not speaking.
  "Say it. Now."
  "I ain't free. In my life. I ain't never been free."
  "Thank you. We appreciate your candor. But you are mistaken about your freedom in a significant way. Because you are free."
  "What do you mean by that?"
  "We mean you are free in the simplest way possible. Do you think that door there is locked? It is not. Do you think if you had chosen to do so we would have prevented you from walking out the door, outside? No, we would not have. You were free to do that. And you still are. At this moment you could walk out that door and never see us again. You might even take that plant and we wouldn't do a single thing. Couldn't really do anything about it. Because, how did you put it? You are your own man. But you won't leave this job. And you won't take the plant. But its not because you aren't free to do so. It's because you don't want freedom. Like most people what you really want is an easy life, to grow fat and to be entertained by diversions of every kind, all the way to the grave. You want comfort and you choose it every day of your life. You are choosing it now. To be soothed and pampered and massaged. And you are willing to trade everything else for it, including the most precious thing you have in the world, your life."
  Several times during this diatribe he almost spoke up, almost raised up in anger at the things he was being told about himself, but in the end he said nothing, because he knew in the bottom of his heart that it was all true.
  The alarm sounded and once again he went to the board and completed the process to get the system back online.
  