
15

  I really do hate this dress because it poofs out too much and makes me look like a mushroom. I tell Mother this but she is in charge and tells me I am her little mushroom angel. And I laugh as she fastens another barrette in my hair and kisses me on the forehead and tells me to go play with my friends while she gets lunch ready. I run outside and Father is standing over the grill. He is turning the hot dogs with a pair of tongs in one hand and has a can of beer in the other. Talking to one of the Fathers, he is really excited about whatever they are talking about. Mike runs up to me and tells me Happy Birthday and I remind him its not really my birthday until Monday and he calls me know-it-all. That hurts my feelings because I was just telling the truth. He says he did not mean it in a bad way so I forgive him for saying it and then Bernice shows up with her two older brothers, who I did not invite, and she walks over to me and tells me Happy Birthday and then Mike tells her my birthday is not until Monday and gives me a smile and I smile back at him. There is wind and it blows the paper plates and napkins from the table into the yard so Father tells all us kids to grab them quick before they blow into the road. We all take off and make it into a game to see who can get the most stuff. I grab the cups rolling in the grass and down the little hill on the other side of the house. But Mike can run faster than me and he already has about ten plates and the forks. Bernice gives up and stands over by her brothers because she does not know anybody else here. Me and Mike carry them back to the table and Father puts the ketchup and mustard and pickle jar on top of everything so the wind does not carry it off again. I tell him the dogs smell good and he asks me if I like mine burnt to a crisp and I tell him No but I know he knows that already. He just likes to mess with me. Bernice asks if we can go jump on their new trampoline and I ask my Father but he tells me I should go ask Mother, so I run inside and she is icing the cake. I try to see what it looks like but she hides it from me and tells me to go outside baby. She wants it to be a surprise but what she does not know is that last week I already saw the Duck Dodgers decorations in her purse. I ask her about the trampoline and she gives me one of those looks like she wishes I would not even ask her about it and says maybe later this afternoon. She asks me to take Father the tray so I take it outside to him and he tells me thank you and then I go to tell the others that we have to wait to go jump on the trampoline. They are disappointed but then I tell them that we will be eating hot dogs soon and then there will be cake and ice cream and they are happy again. So instead I suggest we have a have a hula hoop contest but Mike is not interested in hula hooping. He wants to race around the house to test out his new running shoes. But we all know he is the fastest, even in his old shoes. So I say it is my birthday and I say we have a hula hoop contest. I go first and do twenty two in my first try. Then Bernice goes and she only gets five. She does not have a hula hoop of her own to practice with. Mike goes last and gets a single turn before it falls to his feet. Me and Bernice laugh and he turns red and says hula hoops are for girls and why not have a race around the house real quick. But then Father shouts to everybody that lunch is served and we drop the game and head over to the picnic table set up in the front yard. All the kids sit together at the table, the adults have to just stand up, but they do not seem to mind. Mother brings me a plate with a hot dog and potato chips. I grab the ketchup and squirt it over the dog and a little bit gets on my dress and my Mother looks disappointed. I apologize and she grabs a wet cloth from the kitchen sink and tries to get it out. But I know its stained for good. But I do not say anything about it. The food is good. All us kids are eating the hot dogs and the parents are eating hamburgers. I do not know why that is. To drink we have coke. Mike asks for sweet tea but we are out of that. I almost ask for a second hot dog since I am eight years old now, but then I remember there will be cake and ice cream and want to make sure I have room for that too. Father kids me that I always have room for dessert. He says I must have a second stomach just for sweets. But still, I better not eat another hot dog. Mother brings out the cake from the kitchen and just like I thought there are some Duck Dodgers decorations on it. Even the candle is Duck Dodgers but I did not see that one. I pretend it is a surprise and tell my Mother the cake is beautiful. All the adults laugh when I say that. She lights the candle and they all sing Happy Birthday to me and when they are finish I take a huge breath and blow out the candle, and everyone claps. Mother brings out the small paper plates and a carton of vanilla ice cream. She cuts the cake into little squares puts one square and one scoop of ice cream on each plate. Father hands them out to the guests. But he gives me the first plate. After we eat the cake and ice cream I get to open the gifts. There are several packages on the ground, wrapped in pretty paper. Father brings me the presents and I tear them open. I get the skateboard I have been wanting, a white one with red wheels, with Bruce Lee on the back of it. I get the Barbie I saw in the store one day, the one where she is dressed up like an astronaut. I get some old legos from my friend Mike and Bernice gives me a card she drew of us together with a heart around it. I am very happy. Mother starts to clean up the mess and me and Mike and Bernice run around the house and play a game of hide and seek. Since this is my house I know all the best spots and the first place I go is in the tall grass near the woods. Father never mows this part of the lawn because he says the property line ends at the tree and the man who does own this part never cuts it so the grass is very high. If I crouch down in it I will never be found. So I crouch in the grass and watch a lady bug on one of the blades. I imagine what it must be like to be that small and what the world must look like from that point of view. Then I imagine what is must be like to be the size of a dog, when I am crouched like this in the grass I think I am about the size of a dog. So I run around in the grass and start to bark and stick out my tongue. Father comes up with the kite and does not see me. I wait for him to get close enough and leap out at him, nipping at his heel. He pretends to be afraid, I know he is just pretending, and pats me on the head and says good doggy. I look out at the field and the sky is so blue and the grass is so green and the clouds are so white. I think one day if I became an artist I will paint a picture that looks like this. Mother has spread the blanket on a flattened area where the grass has been cut. She opens the basket and brings out the cheeseburgers and French fries and pours us all cups of sweet tea from the gallon jug. We eat together on the blanket and then Mother and Father lay down to take a little nap. But I am not tired so I crawl around in the grass and pretend like I am a dog again. Because I drank two cups I really have to pee. Like really bad. But I look around and there are no bathrooms out here. And I start to worry so I ask my Father where I can go to pee. He tells me to go in the woods and points to them on the nearest edge of the field. I feel afraid to go there but Mother tells me  not to worry and Father tells me the same, so I go. At the edge it does not seem hidden enough and I know that if a car goes by on the road maybe they will see me from here so I walk deeper into the woods. The trees are packed together and the floor is covered with pine needles and leaves and small twigs and branches. It is not possible to see that far into the woods. The light is dim. I walk further to a small tree that looks far enough so that nobody can see me but to get to the tree I have to walk around some vines and the path is not as straightforward as I first thought it would be. And I pee and it feels good and I relax a little but when I turn to head out of the woods I cannot find the way back. In every direction I see only trees. I start to run, hoping to see some light that will lead me back to the field where my parents are but it only grows darker. I am lost. But instead of stopping I keep running. In my mind I think if I run fast enough and long enough in a certain direction it will lead me back into the light. But that is not true. I call out for my parents. I call for my father. Because he knows this place, these woods, I call out for him to come. And because he is my father I believe he will come for me. Even in these dark woods, a wilderness where I have never been before, I believe he will. I get tangled in briars which tear at my arms and my face and my legs. There is blood running from my wounds and I look into the darkness of the woods and wonder about the creatures who must live there. I do not know how they live or what they feed upon. The laws which govern this place are alien to me and fills me with confusion and dread. Again I call out to him. Father, do not abandon me in the wilderness. Do not abandon me in my days of need. Come back to me. In the wilderness I will wait for you.

  FIRST DRAFT: 12/10/2017