HUNGER

When I was a child this is what the old men told me they had heard when they were children

  Mika had yet to shake off his dreams. He stumbled out of the house, yawning like a mountain lion, and followed the caregiver down a pathway lit by torches. Given no time to dress, the boy wore only loincloth and leggings and the mocassins on his feet. For warmth he tucked both hands under his armpits. Fog rolled in from the hills and obscured the houses on either side of the path where they walked. All he could see was a gray void and the faint silhouette of the old woman ahead. His eyes were drawn to the back of her gray hair, where the double-braided ends twisted like two snakes entwined. Over her shoulders she wore a heavy, bearskin shawl.
  They came to a small house at the end of a hamlet of buildings that made up the healing area of the village. The house on the end was where they took those with fatal hunting injuries or for sicknesses that had no cure. She parted the drape over the low, narrow doorway and then stood aside in silence, her head bowed. The boy entered alone.
  Yaholo, an apprentice of the medicine man, stood over a firepit in the center of the house. Smoke from the fire curled up through a hole in the roof and its flames flickered shadows across the clay-hardened ceiling and walls. In one hand the apprentice carried an eagle claw wrapped around a buckskin pouch of herbs. He shook the herbs into the fire, which sparked and hissed, as he chanted the words of the death ritual.
  His mother, a woman named Ama, stood in the corner furthest from the ceremony with both hands clasped against her chest, her eyes fearful and red with tears. When she saw her son her frown turned into a compassionate smile and her eyes went to the bed at the other end of the room. There his father lay. 
  The revered medicine man of their village lay upon a meager bed, wrapped in skins. His eyes were fixed on a faraway place that no one else could see. He lay utterly still except for the gasps for air that came after long and irregular intervals. At times his eyes rolled back in his head. His name was Sakima.
  No one had instructed the boy what to do or how he should act in this moment. He glanced at his mother for guidance but her eyes were fixed on him who he had been brought to see. He went to the bed and took his hand into his own.
  “Father,” the boy said, kneeling beside him. Tears welled in his eyes but he held them back, so to appear strong.
  The boy said nothing else, holding his hand, inwardly recoiling at the unnatural coldness of his touch. Such coldness in a room with embers burning hot. Feeling helpless, the boy went to a table near the wall and poured a cup of water from a jar. He brought the cup to his mouth and gently fed it to him, and when the first drops wet his lips he came around again. Sakima’s eyes opened. And then he recognized his son standing there. A tear rolled down the side of his cheek and he took the smaller hand of his son into his own, and squeezed weakly.
  “Beautiful boy,” the old man said, “come and see.”
  The boy placed his head against his father’s chest and smelled a bitter salve. He felt the heartbeat within, rapid and then slow, strong and then weak. The boy stayed that way for a long time. They did not speak. He knew his father only wanted to be close to him for a little while.
  Underneath the table along the wall the boy saw a chicken pecking for seeds amid the scraps under a table, oblivious to all else in the room. Pecking in the dirt while his father lay dying. The boy watched the chicken and grew angry at it. At those stupid black eyes watching all.
  Then Sakima whispered into his ear and everything he saw instantly dimmed and every sound, except for the words his father spoke, instantly grew silent. The act of speaking itself seemed to cause the old man pain and when he was finished he collapsed onto the bed and went unconscious. The boy rose and looked at his father, unsure if he had understood all that had been told to him. So strange his words were.
  He saw his mother in the corner, weepping into her hands, and went to console her. Yaholo approached the sick man and the monotone of his chants grew suddenly in volume. He pulled a baton from his medicine bag and shook it overhead. From the corner the mother and son watched. Sakima came to life once more and shook from the core of his body. He appeared to be in great pain and jerked from one side of the bed to the other with unnatural strength.
  Then the boy saw the chicken under the table pecking in the dirt and became enraged. He darted towards it with hands outstretched but it was too fast and he fell against the table and knocked the pitcher onto the ground, where it shattered and spilled water everywhere. At this noise his father screamed.
  Sakima was awake. His eyes wide. He raised from the bed like a statue and growled Yaholo, standing there with the baton. Tears came into his apprentice’s eyes as he continued to utter the ritual chant. Sakima saw his son. His eyes were wild and full of fear. The boy did not recognize his father.
  “Do what I ask of you.”
  The old man collapsed onto the bed again and shouted in pain and a few minutes later became silent, eyes rolled back in his head, much as he had been when the boy first entered the house.
  He looked at his unconscious father and then at the chicken still pecking in the dirt and could take no more. He ran outside into the fog, unsure where he was going. He ran for a long time and groped in the dark for anything familiar. At last he stopped. He was standing before the tree rooted in the ceremonial grounds. 
  The tree had wide, gnarled branches good to climb and rose high above the neighboring foliage of the valley. It’s bark was petrified, smooth and stone-like. The tree was not from this time. It was from another, more ancient world than theirs. It was sacred to the village. The boy had climbed on its limbs ever since he was able to and asked his father questions about it, what kind it was, how old, and when it was last alive. “Nobody knows,” his father had replied with tenderness, “It is a true mystery and therefore a gift to all who behold it.” The boy wondered at that and used to imagine the strange creatures which must have inhabited the earth when it lived and had perhaps been nourished by its leaves.
  Now it was the darkest time of night. The fog had dissipated and the stars were shining above. The moon was low. The morning was yet to come. The boy fell asleep against the trunk of the tree, curled and shivering, and he did not dream. Hours later, after his father had passed from this world, his mother found him there and covered him with a blanket to keep him warm.

  For seven days the village mourned. For seven days they fasted. The worst of it was when he went outside and saw the green foliage of springtime, bright and lush. How at odds to the icy and withered landscapes he felt inside. How he hated every beautiful thing. He spent those days weeping and beating on his chest until it was bruised. Together he sat with his mother and her sister outside their homestead. The women expressed their sorrow with an endless chant of *Sakima* until they were out of breath. His nephews and cousins covered themselves in ashes and sliced their fingertips with tiny shards of flint. Neighbors wept inside their homes. All were forbidden to laugh or smile or even to speak a light word during this period.
  The morning after he peered out of the window and saw the people going back and forth, some his friends, carrying supplies and baskets of food. As son of the departed he was not required to participate in the work for the funeral rites that evening. Still he felt like it might do him good to put his body to use. So he headed to the ceremonial grounds.
  A platform constructed from reeds was being raised in the center of the grounds, near the trunk of the great tree and the high mound upon which rested the council house, where the chief resided. The boy set immediately to work with the others, lashing together the platform with strips of buckskin. If any of the others noticed him as the son of the departed they did not say so. They treated him like any other and that was good.
  The remainder of the day he helped with the preparations. By now the sun was going down and shined through the treetops. The boy was covered with dirt and his arms and back ached from the labor of the day. He sat and watched the women set up tables near the platform and then dishes of all kinds were brought out and arranged upon them. Roasted deer meat, pork, rabbit and other game were at the center. Then surrounding those steaming dishes were bowls filled with sour mashed hominy, locust-pod soup, honey, fried bean and corn bread, dried peaches, dried apples, and his favorite, kanuchi soup, which is made from hickory nuts.
  Families from the surrounding valley were starting to arrive, dressed in their best, most colorful clothes. He saw his own family arrive from the other side of the village, Ama and her sister Ayita with her husband and two boys. When his mother saw him she looked disapprovingly at his soiled clothes and dirty face and spit on her hand to wipe him clean.
  “Go prepare yourself.”
  By the time he returned it was evening. He walked among the crowds who were eating and drinking, laughing together and telling stories. The boy was not hungry himself and resented their carefree attitudes. He hid from his family, who sat on a bench near the base of the tree. He found a spot away from the crowds and crouched in the grass to watch them. He wanted to be left alone. His thoughts turned to the tree whose shadowed branches spiraled towards the muted skies of the evening. There it loomed over them all. Ignored but happy to be ignored. Just like him. Then he remembered what his father had asked of him. He had not thought of his words once since the night, but now it returned to him.
  “I will never forget again, from this day forward.”
  He thought to share what he said with others would be a good thing. Perhaps tonight. To share it would be good.
  At last the elders emerged from the council house and descended into the ceremonial grounds. There were five of them total and they were dressed in magnificent garb. The most delicate deerskins covered in beads and feathers. Their faces were painted red and white. Kulsathee, the old chief of peace, led them with a solemn frown. When they reached the benches at the foot of the tree they turned to face the people gathered. But their gaze was fixed on the two men who approached the funeral platform with the body of the departed medicine man.
  When the boy saw the body of Sakima, who had been anointed with oils and covered in dark paint, then dressed in a ritual gown, nothing like what he normally wore, he wept. The bearers reached the platform and lifted the body onto it. Then a group of them together lifted the platform onto the tall legs, where it fit into slots. They brought all of his belongings out and laid them at the base of the platform. Wood was brought and arranged for the burning. Another young man carried the tinder close to the pyramid of kindling and fuel wood and used a block of flint to start the fire. It caught quickly and within minutes the entire platform was engulfed in flames, an bright orange glow cast onto the faces of the people who had loved him most.
  So bright it burned that even the boy was no longer completely hidden in the shadows. He watched the flames consume his father. Plumes of dark smoke and flecks of embered ash rolled into the air above them. He turned to the crowd and there among them he saw a pair of eyes staring back at him. His friend Tye, who was a hunter like himself, and therefore trained to see things that wanted to remain out of sight. Tye was savvy. He would respect his wishes and not approach his friend in mourning. Instead he made a gesture by interlocking his two forefingers like a chain, this was a secret  symbol of their friendship. The boy returned the gesture from his spot in the darkness. His good friend.
  Yet someone else had discovered him there in the flickering light of the funeral pyre, approaching him from the side so not to be detected. She emerged carrying food. The light from the funeral fire was reflected in her eyes and her long, braided hair shimmered, smooth and flowing like a dark river. Leoti was beautiful indeed. She placed a bowl of kanuchi on the ground in front of him and demurred in respectful silence. He gazed upon her and then at the bowl, steam rising from it in the cool air.
  “Eat, Mika.”
  “I’m not hungry.”
  But he knew it was not a request, and that she would not leave him be until he ate something, so he picked up the bowl and drank the soup down with only a few gulps. It was good, rich and sweet. Leoti then placed a wrapped cloth full of bread and roasted deer meat next to the bowl. It was still warm and the grease seeped through the wrappings.
  “Eat.”
  He ate the bread and meat too and then invited her to sit next to him. She did so. He noticed she did not try to console him though he saw the look of pity in her eyes. The meat was good. The bread too. He had not realized how truly hungry he was. They sat together while the fire burned. He was happy she was here. He looked at the people gathered and saw them differently than before. He saw the love that had brought them together and that this love was not something to be take for granted. He felt that love himself and no longer wanted to be alone. He took Leoti by the hand and led them to the benches where his family sat. Ama received them with tenderness.
  As the evening went on people came by to pay respects. When it was very late and the fire had burned low the people who remained came closer and they each took turns telling stories about the old medicine man. Each story surprised the boy because it was like they were talking about someone other than his father. 
  At last Kulsathee rose in the circle of elders. He was a large, rotund man with long graying hair. He was the chief of peace and had been the leader of their tribe ever since before the boy was born. There were deep lines in his face and whenever he smiled the lines grew deeper still, like bunched up leather. His eyes were red and cheeks were wet from many tears.
  “All the old things are gone now and the people are different.  When we were boys Sakima and I roamed these forests and hunted together. Even then he was drawn to the mysteries of nature. He would commune with the spirit of the trees to reveal where the rabbits were hidden. We caught so many! It is true I loved Sakima, whom you all knew, from the time we were both boys and had our whole lives in ahead of us. He was my good friend and I will miss him.”
  In the lull the boy felt moved to speak. He rose and approached the center of the circle, near the remnants of the pyre, whose embers still glowed dull orange and radiated heat as ripples in the air above. Nobody said anything when they saw Mika. The chief went to him and took hold of both his arms in the gesture of great kinship, and then returned to his seat with the other elders.
  Moments passed. The boy looked into the crowd and saw their hopeful and expectant faces. He knew they wanted to hear something about his father. Something fond and hopeful. But no words came. After a few minutes the people stirred. They grew restless and impatient. Some in the crowd put it down to youthful shyness. Some took it as disrespect. Some pitied the boy while others said he was not the man his father was.

  It was the season of abundance. The forests and meadows blossomed with a myriad of wildflowers and berries. The river which ran near the village, and provided irrigation to their crops, glimmered the afternoon sunlight. Women went daily to its banks and pulled fish from traps. These fish they roasted that same evening, there being no need to salt them for storage. Men hunted game in the nearby woods or did carpentry work that had been put off during the winter. They fixed leaky roofs and built summer shelters for the elders, which allowed the breeze to blow through. The younger children played hide and seek in the village and surrounding wilds. They went shirtless and ate blackberries until their fingers and mouths were stained purple. The older children gathered in the wide open space on the southern edge of the village grounds. Here a field had been cleared of all grass and shrubs so that only a hardened clay surface remained. Here children played dice and other ball games. Stick ball was popular, but the game that required the most skill was tchungkee.
  This was a game for hunters since it required the use of a flat-tipped spear. A small, stone disc the size of a grapefruit was rolled into the center of a demarcated arena. The hunters stood at the edge and threw their spears where they thought the disc would end up, based on its often unpredictable path. Points were distributed by whose spear landed nearest the disc. Tchungkee was so popular that many elders, who were no longer required to farm or hunt during the day, set up ramadas on the edge of the field and smoked tobacco while placing bets on the games.
  For many seasons now the best player in the village was Mika. This was well known and there was even a rule put in place by the gamblers so one could not bet on him more than four times in one day. Yet, ever since his the passing of his father, Mika’s game had fallen off considerably. He was no longer the sure bet he used to be, and both the elders and certain children were beginning to take advantage of that.
  Mohe, an athletic but somewhat dim boy, had challenged him to a game earlier that morning. Mika had not felt like playing today, but when he saw the expectant faces of the elders at the other end he rose from the sidelines, where he sat with Tye, and took up his spear.
  “I promise to go easy,” Mohe taunted him. He twirled his spear upright and deftly threw it at a practice target a little ways from them.
  Mika ignored his rival and ran his hands along the grain of his spear, then walked to the arena. The disc tosser got in position and gave the ready signal with a wave of his hand. They lined up on the markers at the edge. From here the boy could see the northern mountains, their ridges hovering faintly blue over the treeline of the forest. This was the only place in the village from which you could see them.
  The tosser pitched the disc into the arena. Being distracted the boy was slow off the mark and missed the timing of his throw. His spear wavered clumsily in the air and landed at an odd angle, barely sticking into the ground. This was his worst performance yet and he knew it even before they took measurements. It had landed a few feet away. Embarrasingly far.
  His rival ran onto the arena where his spear stuck mere inches from the disc and gloated over it. When the points were counted up he had won by a total of four points, three notches to the boy’s seven. Mohe was thrilled and ran to and fro, shouting to the other children that he had defeated the champion by a huge margin. The elders cheered Mohe from afar, as they had started placing their bets on anyone who opposed him, and they had won big.
  Truly he did not care. Mika sat down again on the sidelines and fixed his gaze on those faraway mountains. Tye approached and noticed where he was looking, but saw nothing of significance about them.
  “The old men say your spear must be bad for you to be throwing like this. They say, Tye give him your spear and he will win again. This we know.”
  “They don’t know anything, old buzzards,” the boy scoffed, “Let them stick to smoking their pipes and taking cat naps, for all I care”
  “It is all they have.”
  “I know it.”
  Tye scanned the field and saw Mohe now among a group of girls who sat in a circle underneath an oak tree sewing bead necklaces. They looked annoyed at him. Leoti was among them. It was obvious most of his attention was given to her.
  “Mohe has been flirting with Leoti. I have seen him do it before. What do you think about that?”
  “Let him. I don’t care what that frogeater does.”
  His friend dropped his own spear on the ground next to him.
  “Use my spear. Challege him again. I just want to see the look on his ugly face when he’s beaten square.”
  The boy looked up, puzzled.
  “My spear is good, Tye. See for yourself.”
  His friend picked up the spear and examined it. He felt the leather straps and ran his hand along the spine, looking for any imperfection, but found nothing.
  “Your spear is good. No splinters, no warp. But how did you lose?”
  The boy once more looked to the mountains. His silence made Tye thoughtful. “Time will make things better,” he said, “You’ll see.” His brother had died in a hunting accident two summers ago and spoke from a place of wisdom. Then he rose and clasped one hand on Mika’s shoulder and stared him in the eyes.
  “You are the best of them all. There is nobody in this village who can beat you in the game of tchungkee.”
  His friend departed in order to join a game of dice that had just begun on the other side of the field. As he went he shouted over his shoulder.
  “Except for me!”
  The boy waved his friend away. A few moments later his eyes went back to the mountains. He looked at them for a long time. Much later he rose and went to find his mother.
  Ama sat outside with a group of young girls, teaching them how to flesh deer hides for the tanning process. When she scraped the broad, flint blade down the hide draped over the wooden incline her shoulder muscles rippled. She moved like a woman twenty years younger than she was. When the girls took their clumsy turns at the hide it merely served to show how adept the old woman was at her work. But she was patient and kind and therefore was a good teacher to them.
  When she saw her son approach she wiped her hands on her apron and embraced him. It was obvious from the way he appeared, head down and thoughtful, that something was the matter.
  “Let us walk,” she said.
  Ama told the girls to finish the hide they were working on and then take a break.
  “May we go for a swim?”
  “You may."
  The children cheered and happily resumed their task. Ama and her son walked together along the path that led outside the village gates. The doors were opened this time of year and from here they could hear echoes of the games in the arena, playful shouting and joyful laughter.
  “Why are you not with your friends?”
  “I was,” the boy began, “but I lost a game to Mohe. The elders no longer bet on the strength of my spear.”
  “Is that why you’re sad?”
  He said nothing, but looked at her.
  “Of course it isn’t,” Ama observed. She pushed back his hair over his ears, “Now tell me what troubles you.”

  
  [todo: rewrite as, two paths make a circle]

  “Father asked something of me before he passed from this world. To do what he asked I must leave the village. For how long I cannot say. Ever since that night, it is always on my mind. I tell myself, Mika, there is no rush. It can wait for now. There will be time for such things later. But when I walk with Leoti, it is there. When I swim in the river, it is there. When I play tchungkee with my friends, it is there. I no longer enjoy the things I used to enjoy. It pulls me away from them.” 

“I do not want this. I want things to go back to how they were before.”

  Two paths make the circle, and the circle is balance. Do you understand?

  The boy wanted to confess everything to his mother, unburden his heart to those eyes, so full of understanding.
  “The night he died, father asked something of me. He whispered it into my ear. Ever since it is always on my mind. I tell myself there is no rush. It can wait for now. There will be time for it later. Yet when I try to enjoy the things I did before, I cannot. There is no joy in them.”
  The boy stopped on the path. His mother did the same. He glanced to the direction of the mountains, though they were obscured by hills from here. Ama followed his gaze but did not ask why he looked there. She listened.
  “I do not want this. I want things to go back how they were before. I want to play with my friends again and not think of this obligation.”
  The boy looked more lost than ever. His mother spoke.
  “Son, your heart is like a path split. One goes this way and one goes that way. Like the pathway which goes around our village. You see it?”
  She pointed to the dirt trail which separated at the gates and ran along the inside circumference of the village.
  “Maybe you should walk this path your father has set for you, even though it splits from the path your friends walk. Then you can look for the place where the two paths join back into one. Like all of life, it is circle.”
  Ama then pointed to the place where the two paths joined. The boy nodded, thoughtfully.
  “Cheer up, Mika. If you have to walk another path for awhile, our friends will await your return. Yes, your girlfriend too.”
  The boy blushed.
  “And so will I, and the elders. All of us who love you will await your return. Remember that!”
  The boy dried his eyes. He smiled.

	[/todo]

  “Is it really true?”
  “I believe so.”
  They embraced and then returned inside the gates. The late afternoon sun shone through the cracks in the palisades and lit geometric patterns on the grass where they walked. It was dinner time and in the air was an aroma of barbecued fish and cornbread baking on the fire.
  
  The boy woke before dawn. He rose quietly from his bed so not to wake his mother, who was asleep in the next room. In the dim light he found his knife and sheath, and slung the traveling satchel over his shoulder. Inside the pouch was the food his mother had prepared the night before, many slabs of fresh deer pemmican. There was no real need to carry water as he would be following the river and could drink from it whenever thirsty. He also brought flint for lighting fires. Outside their homestead was a small shed his father had used for the storage of personal farming equipment and hunting gear. he rattled through the contents of the shed as quietly as he could until his hands landed on the old bucket they used when irrigating their own crops. Because they had not grown their own vegetables in a few seasons the bucket was filled with debris. He emptied it onto the ground and took it with him.
  With these few items the boy stepped onto he path that headed outside the northern gates. He followed the torchlight and looked up at the dark blue of the morning skies beyond the black shapes of the trees. As he approached the gates he saw the morning lookout, a boy his own age named Gawoni, fast asleep underneath a platform built for archers. He went over to the boy and gave him a gentle kick in the shins.
  Gawoni startled out of his sleep, fists up. When he saw Mika he stretched both arms overhead and yawned like a mountain lion. 
	“I was awake the whole time. Don’t tell, okay?”
  “Don’t tell you were awake?”
	Gawoni shrugged. Again he demanded the lookout to open the gates.
  “Where are you going this early?”
  “To fulfill an obligation.”
  “But, where?”
  “To those mountains, north of here.”
  “Why go there?”
  “That I cannot say.”
  “The mountains are very far from here. Too far to travel on foot. How long will you be gone?”
  “However long it takes.”
  “What road will you travel?”
  “The river will guide me there. Its source is in those mountains, so have I been told.”
  “You intend to follow the river and not the road?”
  “The road does not go to the mountains.”
  Gawoni considered this.
  “You are a strange one, Mika, and brave. Don’t you know where the river north will take you, even before you leave the valley?”
  Then the boy did remember and went suddenly cold. The river to the north cut straight through the a gorge that was forbidden among the tribe. This was a dangerous place in the hills, permanently bathed in dusklight. The ravine cut a deep gash in the surrounding hills and dense, ancient oaks on the ridge blocked out any sunlight that might enter there. Yet it was not the unnatural darkness that made the gorge forbidden. It was also home to a Raven Mocker, or so the legend told.
 She was a malevolent witch who existed by feeding on the souls of the sick and dying, thereby extending her own life. She has the ability to go unseen or to take on the form of those who souls she has robbed. The only way to know of her presence is from the sound of her scream, like a multitude of ravens, whenever out hunting prey.
  The old men in the village told stories of hearing the Raven Mocker at the edge of the gorge when they were children. Then there were also stories of dead souls, those whose souls had been sucked out by the witch and from them on walked around with nothing inside them. Outward they looked normal but inward they were hollow and had no heart. Thus the gorge had been declared forbidden by the chief and elders, and ever since then no one from their village had dared to go there.
  Gawoni pushed open the large gate door just enough for the boy to leave. He picked up the bucket and pulled tight the strap of the satchel which hung at his side. Then he walked outside the gates and immediately heard the latch close behind him. From within he heard the lookout call to him.
  “Be safe on your journey, my friend.”
  It was just before sunrise and a pastel glow from behind the hills gave him light enough to find the river. When he got near it he heard the calms waters trickling over stones and fallen limbs, lapping up against the grassy banks. He cupped his hands into the water and drank. It was very cold. He followed the river all morning. At certain times he glanced back to see whether his village was yet out of sight. For some time it was there, until once he looked and it was gone.
  He followed the river for days, camping alongside it once the evening came, cooking slices of pemmican for dinner. The weather was fine, with clear skies and a gentle breeze. Because he was so tired the food always tasted good. For the same reason he slept hard and woke well-rested in the morning.
  One afternoon he came to a bend in the river. Beyond that he knew was the entrance to the gorge he had been warned about. He rested in the crook of a birch tree and when finished his lunch and set off towards the bend, feeling a sense of dread inside. At the bend he stopped and listened for anything out of the ordinary. He himself had never heard the shrieks of the Raven Mocker, but he knew those who said they had. After a few minutes of waiting and hearing nothing but the sounds of the forest he continued on. 
  Here the slope of the hills became steeper and the light tapered off the further he went. Though he knew the sun was overhead the entire place shadowed like it was during an eclipse. It was an unreal, dreamlike view. Because of the incline the trees leaned over and covered the whole area. The water of the river became darkened and its sound echoed faintly on the inclines. The boy went further. The narrow banks grew narrower. There was not much room for him to walk. On his left the river and on his right the steep hillside rose, much too steep for him to navigate. And then he heard shrill bird-like shrieks echoing. Bouncing off the slopes of the ravine the noise came, to his ears full of rage and malintent. He stooped behind a fallen stump and shut his eyes. It was true, after all. The witch was real. The shrieks came again and it was just as described in the legends, a unearthly scream like a cacaphony of multitudinous birds.
  Now was the time when he had to decide whether to go on or turn back. To follow the river out of the valley he had to continue on this path. There was no way around the gorge that was known to him. To navigate around it could take weeks of walking. But to go on he would risk facing it. In his mind the image of the Raven Mocker grew, her wide spread of wings beating the wind and trailing behind her was a tail of flames.
  Later the shrieking stopped. How long he found it hard to tell. He rose from behind the stump and walked beside the banks of the river. At another bend, a mile or so from where he entered the gorge, the bottom widened and spread into a meadow of a kind, filled with rotted trees that had fallen from the high slopes. There were mushrooms growing out of many of them, of all shapes and colors. None he recognized at a distance. The grass was damp and the soil soft. His mocassins sunk in with each step, so he tread lightly. The air was cool, but there was a musty smell from the flora decomposing that made him reluctant to breathe it in. Then he saw it. Somehow he had reached it in the shadows unaware, until it was right in front of him.
  An enormous boulder, a fractured section of the ravine walls, set in the middle of the meadow. Upon its plateaus sat perched a horde of crows, hundreds of them.
  The boy peddled backwards but had no good place to hide. So he stood there. And he looked.
  The birds shrieked once more and at this close distance the sound pierced his eardrums and he covered them with both hands. Again the sound echoed off the high walls of the gorge and repeated in ever-diminishing volume. As his eyes adjusted to the strangeness of them he started to notice the individual birds. He saw their sharp, black beaks and the jerky way they moved back and forth. Covering the nooks they sat upon was ages upon ages of droppings, white and waxlike. They were birds.
  The boy stood and gave a wide berth as he walked by. He stepped lightly so not to startle them but there were leaves and twigs on the ground, crackling underfoot. All at once the entire horde ruffled their feathers and let out shrieks. He dropped to his knees and covered his ears. Then he felt a beating on the wind and looked and saw the crows had taken flight. Like a single organism they rose into the air and swirled above the river and flew up out of the ravine in graceful synchronicity.
  The boy got to his feet and listened but there was only the sound of the riverflow. He kept walking, keeping as close to the banks as he could. Several hours later he reached the edge of the gorge, where it opened into a wide clearing. There he stopped and made a fire and rested for the evening.
  
  Beyond the gorge he walked through open fields covered in tall grass and bushes. The trees grew sparse here. He was not used to such vistas and gazed up at the big skies in awe. The grass came up past his knees and the boy got satisfaction in the way it flattened underfoot. He had arrived at the verge of the prairie. Farther than he had ever been from home. 
  He decided to rest at the verge and set camp underneath some maple trees. The river had broadened, as if to mirror the landscape. Its waters became clear and he could make out pebbles and sediment along the bottom of it. The boy went for swims naked and dried out in the sun. When he was hungry he cooked pemmican over the fire or sometimes ate it raw.
  Daily he set out on the prairie. Each morning there were fewer and fewer trees and then one morning there were none. He found himself in the middle of a vast ocean of gentle knolls and pale green grass. There was a wind that never ceased. It blew from the west and rippled the grass of the plains like water. 
  Above the horizon he could see the hazy outline of the mountain range. At the beginning of each day the boy fixed his eyes upon it and went towards it. Yet when the evening came he appeared no closer and became dishearted. Soon he learned to fix his eyes on nearby landmarks instead, like the sloping hills or cottonwood trees on the banks of the river, and use them to measure his progress.
  He never thought about home. As he traveled through the plains the austerity of the empty landscape somehow entered into him. There was a silence in his heart he had not known before now. It was a kind of joy. It was as if his entire existence had become the act of placing one foot in front of the other, hour after hour, day after day. And nothing more. It was good. When he rested at sundown and cooked pemmican over the fire it was so that he had strength to go on tomorrow.
  One day the boy counted the provisions in his satchel and determined that at his current rate of progress he would run out of food before he even reached the foothills. It had not occurred to him just how far away they were, and how long it would take to get there. Another thing was the fact that seemed to be no wildlife to hunt. No game or fowl. No insects. And no edible vegetation, no fruits or nuts to gather. During his frequent swims he had seen fish in the river from time to time, and heard them splash in the twilight, when the sun was going down. So that gave him some hope. Because of all these things the boy cut back on his daily rations. He sliced the slabs of pemmican into quarters and allowed himself one morsel at every meal. It was not enough to keep him strong, but it kept him going until he could figure out what to do.
  The weather held. Blue skies most days and only the odd rainstorm. When it was bad he fashioned a lean-to from his bedroll and some twigs and nestled inside to keep dry. But most days the sun was bright and hot, and since there was no shade except for the occassional cottonwood tree he got blisters on his face and neck and forearms. The burn on his neck got so sore he would sometimes douse his shirt in the river and drape it over his shoulders for an afternoon, for some relief.
  The bucket also wore blisters on his palms. He regularly switched hands and tried to ignore it, but then the skin broke and started to bleed and it was a knife sticking into him. For this he wrapped the handle with a bunch of grassblades. It helped a little.
  His shoes fell apart. The stitching came loose and created holes where dirt or tiny pieces of grass could get in, irritating the skin. The boy had not prepared his footwear for such a journey. He ought to have reinforced them with more hardened leather, and cursed himself for not remembering. But it was too late now. As the shoes disintegrated they fit looser and wore blisters on his heels and the bottoms of his toes. At night, by campfire light, he soaked his feet in the river and washed the dried blood and dirt from them. That helped to ease the pain. Yet because the shoes were in such poor condition the cycle repeated the next day. Eventually he had to stop and rest every other day to allow his feet to heal before continuing on the path. This compounded the problem of his food running out. Finally, as a way to keep moving, he stripped his shirt into pieces and with some woven grass as line he wrapped the soles for padding.
  The lack of food along with the blisters and sunburns slowly wore the boy down. Evenings he lay under the stars unable to sleep and tried to ignore the sores, but it seemed no matter which way he turned some part of him was irritated. And because he got no good rest he was groggy in the daylight hours and became easily frustrated. He cursed at minor things, like the grassblades tickling his thighs or how cold the river water was. Once he lost his temper and flew into a rage, becoming red in the face and beating on the ground with his fists.
  He attempted to catch fish in the river to supplement the pemmican, but line to fish with was another thing he had not brought along. He fashioned a trap with the empty bucket. That did not work very well. Then he tried to make a line and lure with some woven grass but that too failed to catch any. He last tried to grab a fish barehanded, using the tickle technique, but they were too quick for him in his weakened state.
  “How weak you are,” the boy said aloud, “You are soft and weak. Out here is not for the weak, but for the strong. And you are not strong. You are pitiful!”
  The moon was obscured by high clouds which moved fast across the night sky. He lay there hurting and missed his home. He thought of his mother and his friends and all the people he loved in the village, and who loved him. Under the immensity of the night skies the boy felt his insignificance. And very alone.
  In the morning he ate breakfast, packed up the camp, and returned to the path. His back was to the mountains.
  It was a early afternoon when he rounded the final bend of the river and saw the familiar wooden palisades which protected his village. The gates were opened so he walked straight through. Everything was just as it had been when he left. Several villagers noticed the boy and their eyes widened.
  “Mika, where have you been?”
  “Doesn’t he look different?”
	“He does. Older somehow.”
  Yet he did not answer them. He went straight to the summer house he shared with his family this time of year. His mother sat under the shade of a ramada, boiling beans in a pot over a small fire pit. Ama looked up and gasped. She smiled, proudly.
  “You have returned! How thin you are!”
  She asked her son to come inside. He set the bucket against the house and followed her. After he cleaned himself, he put on fresh clothes and ate a meal she had prepared, roasted chicken with frybread, beans, and a bowl of macerated strawberries for dessert. He scarfed the food like an animal. His rations had run out as he entered the valley so it had been days since his last meal. Once he was finished he looked up and saw his mother staring at him. Her eyes were filled with pride. She said nothing about the journey and yet for the rest of the day he caught her beaming whenever she thought he wasn’t looking. 
  Because he was exhausted the boy went to sleep while it was daylight still. He crawled into his bed and pulled the skins over his head to block out the light and to hide his shame.

  It was early morning and a mist rose from the pond where he and Leoti walked, holding hands. They came to a log and sat down. A strider darted out of the grass close to their feet and glided across the surface, making no sound and yet leaving a wake of tiny ripples behind. Not many in the village were awake. That was part of the reason they liked to meet at this hour, because somehow it felt like everything in the forest belonged to them. Together they watched the sun come up between the trees on the hillside.
  After, Leoti went to wake her brothers and to prepare breakfast for her family. The boy went back to his homestead and set to work on his morning chores. He scooped feed into a basket and went around back to the chicken pen. Inside was a bed of straw. One of the chickens lay on its side. The boy poked it and saw that it was dead. Its eyes were covered over by a milky film. Then he looked into the shed and saw that all of them were dead. There was no blood or any sign a fox had entered. On the hay he saw some kernals of corn. They were partially covered in a black fur, some kind of fungus. He had never seen anything like it before. He ran his hand through the feed in the basket and saw some kernals covered in the same fur. He wiped his hand on the ground and looked towards the center of the village. There was some activity there. He headed there with the basket of contaminated feed.
  At the central storehouse a group of villagers had gathered. Each one brought with them baskets full of contaminated seed and some of them had even brought dead livestock, like chickens or piglets, which they held up by the legs, at a safe distance.
  Yonaguska was the keeper of the storehouse and he was woken and brought to them. He wandered up, rubbing the sleep from his eyes, and asked them, “What is so important to wake me this early?”
  When he saw the dead livestock and the contaminated grains his expression turned grave. He handed the cane he walked with to his son, who had come along with him and climbed up the small ladder to a platform where the entrance to the storehouse was. At the top he scraped his fingers along the edge of the hatch in order to break the clay sealing, and then set it against the wall. He lit the torch he carried in his belt and leaned forward to see inside. But he was unable to see very far. His son climbed up onto the platform and held the torch for him while he crawled through the tiny entrance. He was as small and wiry as a mouse, one of the reasons he had been given the responsibility, and disappared inside. His son held the torch at the door and there was stirring inside while everyone below awaited his discovery.
  When he emerged he climbed down and faced the crowd, which had doubled in number. He shook his head solemnly.
  “Most everything has been contaminated with the fungus. Corn, beans. The potatoes look good. I don’t know how this happened. The seals are in place. It’s as dry as a desert inside.”
  “What do we do now? My pigs are all dead.”
  “And my chickens.”
  “My rabbits too.”
  “That I cannot say,” Yonaguska said, “We need to inform the elders so they can hold council.” He turned to his son.
  “Run fetch Kulsathee. Fetch them all. Be quick!”
  His son ran off towards the townhouse.
  Kulsathee and the elders arrived soon after and were shown the contaminated stores and the dead animals who had consumed the fungus. The chief of peace immediately sent out a messenger, the lookout Gawoni, to tell those who lived within the village walls and also those who had homes in the surrounding hills, not to eat nor feed to livestock any of their provisions until further notice. He then asked to be shown the crops which no one else had thought to check.
  They walked as a group to the southern side of the village. There were large, squared-off fields, in rotation so that no soil was used more than twice in one year. Planted now was corn, squash, beans, pumpkins, potatoes, onions, and strawberries. There were women working the soil and they were asked to help inspect the vegetation. Row by row they crounched and picked through the leaves and stalks and held up specimens covered in the black fur. Again, all had been contaminated except for the potatoes. After that the elders went to the townhouse and held council for many hours.
  Gawoni returned later in the afternoon from the hills. He had reports from the families who lived there and from hunters who were in the forest. The fungus had infected their food supply also.
  “The hunters told me they had found game, deer and rabbits, who had eaten of the infected vegetation and died. They dared not to dress out those. The families too. They ask what will they eat?”
  Kulsathee and the elders deliberated and decided it was safe to eat potatoes. But that was all. They sent Gawoni out to inform the people in the valley. Yaholo was asked to perform a ritual in order to cleanse the valley of the blight.
  The elders sent word to every one in the village to come to the ceremonial grounds and to bring their contaminated food supplies for burning. And that evening they came, the entire population, about two hundred. They carried skins full of corn, beans, onions. All contaminated. It was everything they had, except for potatoes. A bonfire was lit and all their food was thrown upon it, to be incinerated. As their food burned the smoke turned blue-black and rolled upwards beyond the limbs of the ancient tree and dissipated in the night skies.
  The boy had come with his mother. He threw all their food onto the flames and watched the corn kernals pop and char. The onions wrinkled up in the embers. On the other side of the grounds he saw Leoti with her family. He went to her. It was only this morning they had sat by the pond and watched the sun rise. They looked at one another and the mournful look in both their eyes expressed that understanding without words. They stood together and held hands and watched the fire with everyone.
  Soon Yaholo entered the ceremonial grounds dressed in an elaborate coyote headdress and furs. He carried the large green soapstone baton that had been passed down from Sakima. He fastened rattles to his forearms and calves and a small skin drum was hung around his neck. His face was painted all black. Everyone grew quiet when they saw the impressive and solemn entrance. Helpers dragged seasoned cedar logs behind them and when the medicine man gave the word they set them on the fire.
  A distinctive cedar smell filled the air. The helpers themselves had drums and started to beat on them. Yaholo joined them. The beat was at first slow but increased in rhythm. At certain times the medicine man would begin a recitation.

  Out, evil medicine! Leave our crops immediately!
  Out, evil medicine! Leave our stores immediately!
  Out, evil medicine! Leave our village immediately!
  
  Go back into the Darkness. Go back into the Heart of the World!
  Go back into the Darkness. Go back into the Heart of the World!
  Go back into the Darkness. Go back into the Heart of the World!

  The chanting of the ritual repeated seven times in total. On the final recitation his helpers joined in. The drums were beaten ferociously. Yaholo shook his arms and legs between the beat of the drums. Then in the silence immediately after he pulled four snake skins from his medicine bag which had been bound together. Then he removed a bag of herbs and sprinkled them onto the skins and tossed it into the flames. The villagers watched with fascination.

  Crops infected with the blight were gathered and burned. Dead animals discovered in the wilds were also burned. The villagers horded potatoes for their own families. Fights broke out when it came to distributing what remained of them from the town storage house, as some were left with little to eat. Since nobody knew what would happen next they rationed whatever potatoes they had. One family of six who lived outside the gates in the hills had no potatoes left at all, so the father went from house to house in the village asking for help. But none wanted to give up their only foodsource, especially in this uncertain time, though some did give begrudgingly.
  “Why should I help you when you never helped yourself?”
  “You should have prepared like we did. Look at you begging like a dog. I am ashamed for you.”
  This is what his neighbors said.
  The father, a man named Salal, came to the door of their homestead one afternoon when the boy was repairing a hole in the roof. He climbed down and greeted the man, who would not look him directly in the eyes. He stared at the ground and held a small, empty sack at his side.
  “Do you have any potatoes to spare?”
  The boy went inside to fetch his mother. Ama came out a few minutes later, a small pile of potatoes in her apron. The boy stood behind and stared at the man, then at his mother. When she handed him the pile the man sobbed. His eyes were red and swollen.
  “Thank you, Ama. This will mean the world to me and my family.”
  The father collected the potatoes in a skin sack he dragged behind him and went on to the next house.
  The boy looked at his mother.
  “Why did you give him so many of our potatoes?” the boy asked. “We won’t have enough for ourselves.”
  Ama did not answer. She went back inside and after a few moments the boy climbed back onto the roof and resumed his work. He watched Salal beg at the next homestead and leave a few minutes later empty-handed. 
  Later he came in exhausted and his mother had prepared a single roasted potato for them to eat. She broke it in half and set one piece into his bowl and the other into hers. They ate the meager meal in silence.
  One night a scream came from the house of Ninovan. The boy rose from his bed and went outside to see what was the matter. Others had also come out and they all looked in the direction of the house. Not long after a woman came running down the path, carrying a young boy, her son. His skin was blue and there was no life in his opened eyes. She ran to the townhouse and cried at the door. Kulsathee exited and called for Yaholo.
  The medicine man said a few words of purification, but there was nothing to be done for the boy. Yaholo looked up with helpless eyes and turned to the mother. She fell to her knees and held the lifeless body of her son. She wept.
  It was revealed the boy had eaten potatoes earlier that day. The elders asked to see their supply and they were brought in a basket. Upon examination they found traces of the black fungus. There was panic.
  “What will we eat now?”
  “How am I going to feed my children?”
  “Why have the elders not come up with a plan?”
  Nobody slept that night from the fear that they or their loved ones might suffer the same fate as the house of Ninovan. 
  In the morning all were called to the ceremonial grounds. The elders had held council all through the night and would pass on their decision at this time.
  Under the tree the village gathered. Kulsathee led the elders out of the townhouse and down the steps into the grounds. They went to the log bench and sat down. The chief of peace alone rose and surveyed the faces of the people. His expression was solemn and when he began to speak the sound of his voice was like a large drum, definitive and booming.
  “You must know that a blight has come over our valley. It has affected our crops, our stores, and our livestock. It has contaminated plans in the wilds and therefore has also sickened or killed the game that roam our forests. We had thought that potatoes were safe, but only last night, as you all know by this point, a boy died from eating potatoes contaminated with the black fungus. His name was Kanuna and his loss is a devastation, an inconsolable loss. Such a bright boy,”
  His voice broke off and tears welled in his eyes. He paused for a few moments and continued, his voice not as resolute as before.
  “We do not know the source of this blight. We do know that it acts like a mold and will spread on contact. It seems to spread through all varieties of plants, grains, vegetables, and fruits. Although the fungus doe not seem to spread via animals or people, it can still make you sick, as we have learned. The most at risk our the very old or the very young.”
  “But what can we do?” A young father shouted, “How can we feed our families now, when the potatoes are contaminated? You said they were safe to eat!”
  Some in the crowd scolded the man for showing disrespect, but Kulsathee calmed them with a wave of his hand.
  “Do not blame this man for his outburst. This good father has asked what all of you want to know. I understand this well. Do not forget that I am also a father, and a grandfather, and soon to be a great grandfather.”
  He gestured to his large family sat nearby. His granddaugther rubbed her belly and smiled bashfully. Kulsathee regarded them with compassionate eyes.
  “Do not be afraid. Myself and the elders have held council all through the night. Since this came to pass we have also held council with the farmers and hunters among you, in order to see what can be done. And this is what we will do.”
  “Every man who is able to hunt will tomorrow set off on a journey to the next valley. We have sent a scout there and he has reported back the blight has not yet spread that far. It is a five day journey. We will enter the next valley to hunt deer, rabbit, and other game. Accompanying the men will be a small group of women, to gather nuts, and wild fruits and vegetables that can be dried. They will also stay at the base camp to dress the kills and to salt them for the journey back to the village.”
  “Because the best place for the hunters will be in the next valley, they will remain there and we will set up a system of checkpoints to deliver the food supply. Then, after a couple of weeks, the hunters will return to rest and to see their families. Then we start over again. By doing this we will be able to store enough food to last throughout the winter, and safely into the following year. Remember, the days are now long and warm, but we cannot forget they will not always be so. We must not forget that the Earth is bountiful but she is also harsh. Our people are strong and by working together we will overcome this blight. We will not starve.”
  
  It was a warm day in summer. The hunters crouched in the grass nearby a creek where the deer came to drink. A soft breeze blew across the clearing and rustled the leaves on the trees. Tye lashed the decoy to his right and crawled flat on his stomach to the edge of the water. He lifted the mock deer head just above the grass line and bobbed it up and down in a realistic manner. Then Mika placed his hands over his mouth and whistled like a bird, their agreed upon signal to one another while tracking prey in the neighboring valley. Tye knew from the whistle the deer head was visible from afar and he should keep it at that height.
  Being the decoy fell on Tye because the boy had the truer aim. The elder hunters had decided upon this themselves during target practice. Tye did not resent that it was not his part to slay the deer when hunting with his friend. He knew someday his chance would come.
  As they waited the boy adjusted the tension on his bow strings and absent-mindedly rolled the arrows on the ground at his feet. Today was a good day to hunt. The sky was clear and blue. There had been thunderstorms the previous week, which had made it tougher to meet their weekly quota, but with hard work the hunters had still reached the goal. Things were going well.
  At the sound of rustling in the bushes near the creek the boy immediately refocused and notched an arrow into his bow and drew into position. His breathing became measured and calm. Soon there was more movement, the sounds of a twig snapping, and then a buck and doe appeared together at the edge of the creek. Slowly they drank from the cool waters and though the decoy was plainly visible to them, they did not seem to notice it. That was good. It gave the boy more time to choose the best shot.
  He raised up on his haunches so that his eyeline was level with the top of the grass. The two deer were not in the best position for a kill. The boy needed them to face east in order to expose their vulnerable side. Because they were so close by the boy could not risk moving even one inch from his spot. The deer were attuned to the sound of any predators, and that included him. Any sound at this point would give him away.
  After a few minutes of nothing his feet tingled from the lack of blood flow. His bow wavered slightly from its mark. Across the clearing he saw the head of the decoy lower and raise again in an unrealistic manner and hoped Tye had enough strength to hold steady.
  Then the deer ambled further down the creekside. And soon they were broadside to the boy. He let his arrow fly and it struck the buck just behind his foreleg with a thwomp. Both deer immediately sprung away without a break in stride, the arrow buried deep and blood letting out. In the same breath the boy prepared another shot. He wanted to get that doe before it was out of range. He drew an arrow and let it fly without hesitation, but it was a poor shot and went wide. But then Tye rose from his spot, in perfect position. He tossed the decoy from his arm and drew aim and let his arrow fly. He struck the doe mid-stride and it fell hard onto the ground at the forest edge.
  “Woohoo!” his friend shouted.
  The boy stood up and beamed at his friend. They then collected their gear and went to place where the doe had fallen. Tye reached his kill and said a prayer over it, asking for forgiveness and to thank her for gift she had bestowed. Together they set to work and field dressed it. With knives they opened and gutted her and then stretched out the body upright against a small tree, so the blood could drain. Tye tossed the entrails into the grass.
  Then they tracked the blood trail which led them to the buck. An hour later they found him dead in some brush. They dressed him out on the spot and lashed him to a travois and headed back to pick up the doe, and then to camp.
  By now it was afternoon and they were hungry. They pulled some pemmican from their bags and ate near the creek, dipping their canteens into the water for drink. Because they had tracked all morning they were famished and the food tasted good and they could feel it replenish their energy. While they ate they talked about the hunt and their good fortune. With the doe and buck this would put them ahead of quota for the week and would please the elders.
  “I never saw somebody go from decoy to killshot with such speed,” the boy said, praising his friend.
  Tye downplayed the compliment but his pride was evident.
  “It took the both of us,” he countered, “Your shot at the buck set me up. All I had to do was aim and shoot.”
  The boy smirked.
  “All you had to do.”
  They both laughed, and finished their meal. After, they refilled the canteens and took hold of the travois and began the long and arduous path back to camp.
  It was twilight before they were in sight of the camp, the firelight and smoke visible in the distance. They were joined on the path by other groups of hunters returning. Once again it seemed they had the best luck of the day. Entering the camp they were greeting by a group of girls who were in the act of salting meat from the previous day. They giggled and pointed to the hunters, too shy to speak. Helpers came out when they reached the center of the camp. They unlashed the kills from the travois and hauled them off to start the processing.
  There was a large fire where the hunters gathered every evening to discuss the work of the day over roasted meat and vegetables that had been collected. Some laid on their backs resting. Others sat on logs napping arrowheads or sharpening their knives for the following day. All were in a cheerful mood.
  He and Tye were received like heroes, even among their peers. They fed themselves and sat around the fire with the others. Word had already got around about their kills. Tye stood and retold the story, exagerrating only in places. He described the decoy, the creek, where Mika was crouched in the grass, and from which direction the deer had come. They were all impressed.
  At some point three of the elder huntsmen emerged from their tent and came over to the congratulate them. They placed their hands on the boy’s shoulder.
  “Here he is, the boy with the bow. You have made us proud today!”
  “It was Tye also,” Mika said, “He killed the doe himself.”
  They beamed and nodded to Tye.
  “Well then, you have both made us proud, and one day you will be warriors. This we know.”
  They stood the hunters and took them around the arms and shook them in the gesture of great respect. Then they addressed the group and told everyone to get plenty of rest. Since they had met quota for the week, the following morning they would be returning to the village for a few days of rest. The hunters cheered and that night they slept well from exhaustion and dreamt not the of the hunt but of home and being reunited with their loved ones.

  The children ran out to meet the caravan. In their hands they carried wooden knives and tiny bows. When they saw the line of weary, yet proud, hunters they all shouted in unison, 
  “They have returned! Everyone come and see!” 
  Most of all they wanted to see Mika, the youngest and best of all the hunters. He was the one the children most looked up to (and secretly wanted to be). When they saw him and Tye heading up the back of the caravan line they scrambled in that direction and immediately asked questions.
  “How many did you kill this time?”
  “I bet fifty!”
  “No way, that’s too many.”
  “Then you haven’t seen Mika shoot.”
  The children were caught up in the excitement of the moment and shouted over each other. 
  “Mika, the boy with the bow!”
  Tye and he exchanged amused glances over their little heads and answered their questions they best they could.
  At the gates the families were gathered in a large crowd. The gates were opened and had been decorated with beautiful streams of woven flowers. The smell of flame-roasted game was in the air and lifted the noses of the weary hunters and their caravan. They embraced their loved ones and told them all that had happened since the last time they were together.
  Ama and her sister Ayita stood near the back. Her eyes were moist and she smiled when she saw her son surrounded by all the children. He hugged her and Ayita. Then Ama stood back and regarded him.
  “My famous son, the filthy hunter. Look at him!”
  “I swear he has grown two inches,” Ayita said.
  Ama turned to her sister, amused.
  “The children come up to me everyday. They say, when will the boy with the bow return? Do you know when he he will come back? I have to tell them I know as much as they do, and that I also await the return of the boy with the bow.”
  Ama and her sister laughed. They walked inside the village gates together and returned to the homestead to prepare for the feast that evening.
  Torches lit up the faces of all who had gathered there under the stars in the ceremonial grounds. There was food, so much food, though not of the variety they had in the days before the blight. The boy stuffed himself until he could barely move. He sat on the grass and patted his stomach. After the eating was the dancing. Drums were brought out and set in a large circle. Girl dressed in decorated skin dresses came out wearing turtle-shell rattles on their legs and forearms. They danced to the drums while others chanted popular songs about home and love.
  Leoti was there. He saw her from across the bonfire, with other girls. She looked around her for something. Or someone. He rose and crept around behind the tree, his eyes never leaving the dark-haired girl who was always in his thoughts. From there he crouched and wound through the groups of dancers and others who sat upon the grass. Then at last he was right behind her. She was talking to her friend, but then said in a loud voice.
  “I am no deer.”
  The boy said nothing. Suddenly his face was wet all over. Leoti turned and faced him directly, empty cup in hand. Her face was serious.
  “Are you stalking me, hunter?”
  “Hi, Leoti.”
  He wiped his face and himself grew serious, worried he had offended her.
  “Hi, Mika.” Leoti said. She kissed her hand and touched his cheek gently. Then she broke into a smile. The group of girls around her started to giggle.
  They walked on the grounds together, hand in hand. He had never seen such a beautiful creature in all his life. Her dark, smooth hair framing the round and delicate features of her face. Those eyes so full of something he found hard to put into words, though *promise* was close.
  “You have grown strong.”
  “Everyone keeps saying that.”
  “It is true. Or maybe it is just your reputation that makes you seem so large and mighty. Kulsathee and the elders beam when they speak your name. Just like the children do.”
  They sat on the dark side of the tree together, out of sight of the others, and did not talk. When he did at last turn to her he could see the thing they had shared so often before, something like a belonging. She was his and he was hers and the world was something for them to share.
  That night he dreamt of Leoti and of her youthful beauty and the tenderness between them. In the dream they sat under tree as earlier in the night and he kissed her as he had not done then. When they kissed it was as if they became a single organism, melting one into the other, full of an all-consuming feeling of compassion towards all things. And then he woke.
  He threw off the skins and looked out the window, at the stars and the black shadows of the treetops moving in the breeze. In the next room he heard his mother sleeping. He put on a robe and walked outside and looked up. There was something he needed just now. He needed quiet. It was quiet. Everyone in the village was in their homes. The only sounds were the crickets in the forest and the breeze and the sound of his footsteps on the path. But he did not need quiet at all, really. He needed silence. Because something was not right. Something had not been right for a long time. His thoughts were not clear but he felt like he was close to something important. And there was too much noise here. He walked the path which went around the edge of the village, just inside the palisade walls. Too much noise to hear it.
  As a hunter he did a good thing for their tribe. He hunted the deer which fed their people. Before the blight it had been different. They grew crops also. But now it was necessary that every able male join the hunt in order to provide the only food source that could sustain them throughout the winter. It was about survival. He went back to the moment when the blight had been discovered and remembered every detail and asked himself if the choice that had been made was the right one. And every time the answer was yes. And no other choice was right. In every way he could conceive, it was right and good and true, this work he did. And yet,
  How wonderful the looks on the faces of the children today. How they looked up to him. They put feathers in their hair as he did. How he loved them. Those beautiful faces. And his family, so proud of him. Their hearts swollen with pride. How he loved them. And Leoti. The feeling of their togetherness was still with him. To provide for them, to use his strength and skills to hunt for the food, to provide his loved ones with food to survive the winter. It was a good thing. In every way he could conceive, it was good and true and right, this work he did. And yet,
  [todo: feels outside himself]
  He had walked entirely around the village and now returned to their homestead. It was still quiet, but now his racing thoughts had calmed. He went to the shed and found the old bucket in a corner, full of debris. He emptied it and ran his fingers along the handle, which was still wrapped in strands of grass from the prairie. He sat with it under the stars and at last found the silence he had needed. Because it was only in the silence that he could hear it. Faint, because so much time had passed, because it had nearly been forgotten.

  *Do what I ask of you*

  It was time for the caravan to depart. The entire village was working to prepare for the journey. Two men pulled the cart to the southern gates, where it was packed with fresh hunting equipment and processing supplies. The hunters themselves put on fresh gear which their wives and mothers had sewn for them. Several novices had been tasked with napping fresh arrowheads from flint and restringing their bows. Though busy the mood among the villagers was calm. The weather was fair, clear with high wisps of clouds in the western sky.
  Mika had risen with the sun, it slanting through the window onto his face. He had breakfast and went to the shed. Inside he took the bucket and set it outside. The old satchel he pulled from a chest in the house. It’s worn leather strap needed repairing and he set to work on that, reinforcing it with a soft piece of buckskin. Then when that was done he emptied the basket of pemmican he had horded from various locations the past few days. Altogether it was seven pounds of food. From another chest in the shed he took out some old netting, used for fishing in lakes and rivers. He grabbed a few lures and tossed those into the satchel as well. Finally he threw in a sharpening stone and couple of small knives.
  Nearby he heard the sounds of the villagers. There was food and music. He heard several laughing. Some tearful goodbyes. Yaholo and his apprentices were performing a blessing ritual and accompanying it were loud whoops and whistles.
  The boy pulled off his mocassins and wrapped the soles in tough buckskin, which would last much longer than the normal soft leather. He secured it with twine and then wrapped them all in long strips of supple deerskin. These would not cause blisters, though they did not breath as well, and would sweat. As he slipped them on his mother approached down the path. She had been with the others and her face was serious and frowning.
  “Why are you not with the caravan? It departs soon. Yaholo already performed the ceremony. Others are saying their farewells as we speak.”
  He tightened the straps around his shoes and stood up.
  “I am not going with them.”
  “What do you mean? You must go.”
  Ama looked at him, her gaze resolute. The boy met her eyes, but then turned away.
  “Where are you going?”
  “To the mountains in the north.”
  His mother looked puzzled.
  “But you have. I remember when you left. I remember when you returned. You have done it.”
  “No,” the boy confessed, “I failed, mama. I was ashamed so I hid it from you. But I failed before, and now I must try again, and not fail.”
  Her eyes drifted off, in thought, then returned.
  “Mika, the tribe depends on you. Now is not the time for such things. Every man who is able to hunt must do so. Don’t you remember the words of Kulsathee. The decree he made. It is not for you to question. It is for the survival of our village. I know you loved your father. So did I. Do you think whatever is out there is more important than doing your part? Things are going well now but that may change. Nothing is certain.”
  The boy looked at his mother.
  “This is certain.”
  He opened the satchel and checked all its contents to make sure he had not forgotten anything. The sounds of the villagers echoed down the path, their voices enthusiastic, cheerful. His mother did not speak for many minutes. When he was done he looked up and saw her crying.
  “You are mistaken about that. In his last days, your father was not in his right mind. Truth be told, he had not been well for a long time. He was sick and feverous. His thoughts were not his own. Please understand that. Whatever it was that he asked you to do, it was because of the sickness. It was the fever on his brain and nothing more.”
  With those words she was silent, and sat on the log outside their house. The boy thought about the things she said. He picked his things from the ground, his knife, the bucket whose handle was wrapped with a thick layer of grass. He tucked the knife in his satchel and gripped the bucket in his free hand. Then he leaned over and kissed the top of her head and set off on the path into the village center. He looked back once before rounding the corner but she was not watching him go. She stared  at a faraway place. He was alone.
  The path through the center of the village took him near the people gathered to see off the caravan. As he came around the group of hunters were in sight. His friend Tye saw him and motioned for him to hurry up. When the boy kept walking he cupped his hands around his mouth as if to shout, but then stopped. He saw something in his eyes to make him stop. The boy made the gesture of their friendship but Tye did not return it. *Though you are my friend, I must go alone*.
  He came upon the townhouse on the mound and outside stood Kulsathee and the elders. They watched the caravan from afar and were dressed as if it were a celebration. Their faces regarded the boy as he passed them by. He met eyes with the chief of peace and saw no sense of familiarity in them, impassive and cold. *Though I honor you, I must go alone*.
  Then at last he went through a crowd of women and saw Leoti among them. They were carrying turtle-shell rattles in their hands and wore feathers in their hair. Her face lit up when she saw him but then fell as she realized he was headed away from the caravan and all the others. The boy wanted very much to stop and tell her everything he was feeling, but he kept going. *Though you have my heart, I must go alone*.
  He went through the center of the village and along the path that led out to the northern gates. From here he could still hear the crowds. They wished the departing hunters well and told them to remember them on the hunt. Their voices grew fainter the closer he got to the gate.
  Because it was a special occassion there was no lookout on post at the gates. He went up and unlatched the pole securing them from the inside. Then he pushed on one of the gates until it swung open just wide enough for him to get through. When he was on the outside he pushed it closed. Someone would find it later and secure the latch. He walked to the river.

  At last he reached the campsite where he had turned his back on the mountains. The firepit still contained the charred and ashen limbs. The cleared place in the grass where he slept. The little twig he had stuck in the ground as a marker. All there. All the same. Except now he was not the same. He was no longer the weak boy who had made that unprepared journey. In his satchel were plenty slabs of pemmican. He had rationed them from his first night on the river path. Some nights he had caught fish in the river, using the netting he brought along. His feet had blistered, that was unavoidable on such a trek, but his shoes had held together from the reinforcements. The blisters had calloused over and no longer bothered him. His palms had also calloused and the bucket no longer troubled him.
  He camped that night under the stars. He cooked pemmican over the fire and slept soundly. Then in the morning, even before sunrise, he was back on the path, the distant mountains a dark monolith against the predawn horizon.
  The days went by. He did not often look twenty yards in front of him. That was all he needed to find his way. The river was guide enough. The grass and small trees of the prairie grew sparse until one day he found himself walking on stubby grass and hardened ground. He looked up and saw isolated rock formations and escarpments to higher plateaus. Little vegetation. Mosses, shrubs. No life. The mountains which had been so far away were upon him. Its summit loomed above, the highest peak surrounded by a halo of clouds. He still had a long way to go.
  That night he stopped early and chopped some shubs for firewood and built a fire. He pulled the netting from his satchel and crouched near the river bank and waited until he saw a fish. He was there for a long time waiting but at last he saw three of them in a group and tossed the netting wide. It sank into the moving water. He let it sink and then snatched it up quickly. Trapped inside it was flopping about. He bashed it onto a large rock and thanked it for offering its life. Then he cleaned it with his knife and skewered it with a leftover twig. He held it over the fire and breathed in the smell of its flesh cooking over the flame. He was famished.
  The food he ate replenished his energy so that he could continue the next day, but it was not enough to make him full. Not enough to maintain his weight. Already his ribs were visible and he had lost muscle. Sometimes he leaned over the river surface and looked at his gaunt silouette. 
  Other times he wondered how much time he had actually spent out here. It was a funny thing. Time did not seem to pass the same as it did in the valley. There were days and nights, and the sun rose in the east and went down in the west. Still he found that at any particular moment he could only remember fragments. Time and memory blurred into a single moment.
  He picked at the fish until it was all bone and then pulled a blanket over him and went to sleep, the temperature at this altitude cool, and when the wind blew it was even cold. In the morning he ate breakfast and got back on the path. 
  The boy did not think about home while he walked. That he would not allow himself to do, remembering the loneliness and how it had overcome him before. At times he spoke aloud just to keep the sense of isolation at bay.
  “I am on the path”, he said often, as if to remind him, “I am on the path.”
  The wind at this altitude blew around the ridges and boulders, resembling the ceaseless crashing of waves on a beach. The bucket caught the wind and tugged at his arm the entire day. With the wind blew the cloud vapor at certain times of the day. It created a dense fog and slowed his progress considerably since he couldn’t see ten feet in front of him. At these times he relied on the rush of the river to guide him.
  One afternoon he was in the cloud fog and had been thinking of kanuchi soup and fried bean-and-corn bread when his mind snapped into focus. He no longer could hear the river. He immediately turned back and traced his path. It was hard to tell in this fog. The sound of the wind made it hard to distinguish the river. Then he found it again and saw why he had lost it in the first place.
  There was a small mouth in a gathering of small boulders. This was where the river emerged from inside the mountain. It was much too small for him to enter, about two feet high. He crouched and looked inside but there was only darkness. He climbed to the top of the boulders where the ground leveled off and placed his ear to the ground. He could both feel the vibration of the river and hear the muffled rush of the water.
  Sometime later the clouds dissipated and the boy could see what lie ahead. There was a steep grade only navigable from the piles of rocks and boulders. He kept going. At certain times he would listen at the ground for the river, but it was always there to lead him in the right direction, which was not always a straight line or the easiest route.
  Ahead he spotted a natural archway in the rocks. It appeared to create an entrance of some kind. He was not yet high enough to see what lie beyond. It might have been his imagination. He listened at the ground and heard the sound of the river. He climbed up the staggered plateaus common on the summit. The archway was beautiful. From certain vantages he thought it could even have been man-made, so elegant and smooth were its contours. *I was created*, it spoke. Many generations ago their ancestors had lived in these mountains, the Old Ones.
  He reached the archway and stood momentarily beneath its high reach. It made him dizzy. He walked into what appeared to be a cavern of some kind, though opened at the top. The sunlight shining down in a slant onto the rock walls. The sound of the wind blowing through the cavern was deafening. He cupped one hand around his left ear. As he walked he saw an opening in the ground and as he got closer he heard the sound of the river. It echoed off the high, angled ceiling and reverberated into echoes. 
  The boy walked to the edge and saw that the opening was actually a chasm. The dark of the shadows grew deeper the further he peered into it. By the smooth rush the water made he knew the water must be deep at the bottom. But all he could see was the dark. He picked up a small stone and dropped it over the edge. He listened for a splash but there was too much competing noise.
	Mika surveyed the width of the chasm. It was thirty feet across. Impossible for him to leap. He thought perhaps he had made a mistake after all. Perhaps there had been a better approach up the slope than listening for the river. He retraced his footsteps outside to where the cavern plateau dropped off. Along the mountainside shear cliffs rose to great heights. Impossible to climb. He looked beyond the chasm and at the other end of the cavern, he caught a glint of sunlight which blinded him until he shielded his eyes. It was an opening.
	The boy sat cross-legged at the edge of the chasm. He listened to the roar of the river. The roar he heard at the bottom of the chasm but could not see. Sometime later he rose and took a piece of twine from his satchel. He tied it around the handle of the bucket and then around his right arm. He tugged at it to make sure it was secure and then inched up to the ledge, and went over.

  Down he plunged into the murk. Seconds later his feet pierced the river surface and he sank right to the bottom. When he felt the hard ground underfoot he shoved against it with all his strength and clawed his way back up. The bucket had filled with water and felt like a boulder around his forearm. Quickly he fought to flip it around and tuck it firmly in the crook of his arm. This reduced the drag and allowed him to swim upwards.
  At last he emerged and gasped for air, kicking his legs to remain in one place. All around him was the dark but in some places the light from the cavern above reflected on the water and revealed a path deeper into the chasm. He swam against the current while holding the bucket aloft with one free arm. When that arm started to lose blood flow he switched to the other and slowly made progress upstream, which because of the depth was not too swift.
  When both arms became tired he went to one side of the chasm and treaded in place for a few mintues. Looking up he saw a small gash of light where he had leapt. He had fallen far. The smooth walls of the chasm were cold to the touch and provided little for him to hold. He went on. 
  Repeating the cycle of swimming and resting on the side of the chasm he slowly made his way upstream. Then his gamble paid off when he emerged into an underground area. There was no more light coming above, but that was okay because there was another light source somewhere in the distance. How far it was impossible to tell. He swam hard against the current in the direction of this light, hoping to reach it before his arms gave out entirely.
  Soon he saw the light was coming from the entrance to some passage among the rock walls of the cavern. Before he knew it his legs kicked against the ground. He stood up and rested, then then walked the rest of the way to the passage.
  Dim beams of sunlight fell onto the beach at the entrance. The rock ground was slick with algae and tiny pebbles. This passage looked to be a natural formation but had been used by Old Ones at some point in history, because all along the passage walls leading up he saw petroglyphs. He turned the bucket upside down and sat on the beach. The engravings were of animals and other shapes he did not recognize. They told some story he was too fatigued to decipher.
  He looked up the passageway and could not see where it led. There were turns and side passages. When he had rested enough he picked up the bucket and started the climb. The floor of the passage was slick and his wet shoes lost their grip at times and he fell. His knees were bruised by the time he got around the first turn.
  It was quiet. The sound of the river became muffled. All he could hear was the scuff of his footsteps. The light grew brighter and glistened on the undulating stone that made up the passage. It had been carved from countless eons of waterflow. The boy could feel its age in the subtle layers of it. 
  Soon the steep incline leveled off and he approached another turn. From here he could see the exit as a bright circle of illumination. But there was another way to go. To the left was another passage. The light did not enter there. As he approached his eyes were drawn into its shadows. Something was there. Something alive was just out of sight in that darkness. He heard its breaths and the closer he came he saw its eyes reflecting light from the exit, though he could not make out its shape. Then it noticed him and he panicked. His heartbeat pounding in his chest. Slowly he removed the hunting knife from its sheath and stood very still.
	“Do not be afraid, traveler,” it spoke to him from the darkness, its voice a low growl, much like the sounds of the brown bears which roam the hills of his valley.
	Then he saw its shape emerge from those shadows. It was a brown bear, reared up on its hind legs, but he knew that it was really no bear at all. He gripped his knife to be prepared.
	“Please put down your weapon, traveler,” the bear said, “Come with us inside. We have fire to keep us warm. We have food to fill our belly. So many travelers have come this way before. All travelers must join us in time.”
	It came closer still.
	“Stay back!” he said, “Return to the place you came from.”
	It flashed its teeth and reared its claws but came no closer to him. Then the bear, who was really no bear at all, backed away until it was once more two eyes glowering in the darkness. The boy sheathed the knife and walked slowly past it, and tempted though he was, he did not look once in its direction.
  As he exited the passage he held one arm over his eyes. The sunlight was very bright. After a few minutes his vision had adjusted and he could not believe what he saw. Ruins of a city surrounding a vast lake.
  The boy climbed down and navigated through the ruins to the lake shore. There he peeled off his clothes to dry in the sun and stuck one toe into the shallows. It was cold, but no colder than the river he had just emerged from. He waded in. 
  The water was clear and he could see the rocks on the bottom, small pebbles of various shades of brown and gray. His feet sank into the rocks. Then he saw little fish nosing at his shins. There were dozens of them, translucent silver with a rainbow sheen. He swam out where his feet no longer touched the bottom. He could only see a few feet into those depths.
  He floated on his back for awhile and then climbed out. By then his clothes were mostly dry. He put them on and removed the netting from his satchel, which was still water-logged. He walked until the water was up to his knees and tossed the netting. He brought up a few fish, flopping within, and was overjoyed. Later he wandered the ruins and found enough kindling from dried bushes to build a fire. He skewered the fish and roasted them over the flame and stuffed himself. By then the sun was going down. It was getting colder. Already the moon was visible in the eastern skies, its reflection mirrored in the stillness of the lake. Before bedding down for the night the boy took the bucket up to the edge and dipped it underwater. He filled it to the brim.

  Over the next few days Mika rested. The weather remained clear, hot during the day but cold in the evenings. He spent his waking hours exploring the ruins. [todo: what he finds] When he worked up a sweat he went for swims in the lake and dried out on the rocky beach. When he was hungry he caught fish and cooked them and feasted until he almost burst. One morning he rose with the sun and knew it was time to go back.
  While exploring he had also gathered materials he could use to weave a makeshift bridge, in order to cross back over the chasm. Using thin twigs and vines along with sturdy flat pieces of stone he built one over the course of the morning. His mother had taught him basketmaking when he was very young and he drew on those skills. When he was finished it was ugly but would hopefully get him across.
  He carried the bridge up the terraced plateaus to the cavern archway, where he had entered the lake area a few days ago. The lip of the bridge caught on a few sharp points and he had to be careful not to force it. At the archway the constant wind caught his hair and blew it back. He drug the bridge to the edge of the chasm. It looked plenty long enough, but if he had not measured right, it would likely fall. He raised the entire bridge lengthwise and let it come down with gravity. It landed with a thud, safely across the chasm gap.
  When he shifted it into a more secure angle he grabbed a heavy stone and heaved it onto the part of the bridge over the chasm. It sunk and the binding creaked under the weight, but it gave him confidence it would hold.
  The boy returned to camp and gathered his things. He had also made a lid for the bucket and secured it with a piece of twine so the water would not spill out on the journey home. He took one final look at the lake and the ruins and then climbed up to the cavern entrance.
  With trepidation he placed one foot onto the bridge. Then he placed the other. He was not even close to the center and it was already sagging. He took a deep breath and darted across the entire length as fast as he could, keeping each footstep as light and quick as possible. At the center the bridge sagged so far down the final stretch was like running uphill. He made it.
  Under the archway he stood and saw the expanse of highlands and foothills stretching to the horizon. Beyond it the prairie, then the valley. Then home. He took in the vista and then climbed down to get onto the path.
  Now that it was full of water, the bucket was the heaviest thing he carried. His arms grew tired even after switching one to the other. This caused him to rest more frequently and so he did not make the same kind of progress as the journey to the summit. Every time he set the bucket down he was nervous it would spill. So he kept it tucked between his knees.
  He had brought three roasted fish in his satchel. These lasted a couple days, after which he was back to dragging the net in the river. Like before he was able to catch one or so every night. This gave him enough energy to make progress for the day. But he was always hungry. Very hungry. To keep his focus on the path he navigated by whatever landmarks he could reach in a single day. The rest of the time he kept his eyes on the ground at his feet and merely placed one foot in front of the other, without stoppping. At night he camped, with a fire when there was firewood, with fish when he was lucky to catch them. Days passed. Then weeks. And then one day he looked up and saw he was in the valley.
  He recognized the oaks and maples. He recognized the familiar bends of the river. The meadows and the gorge. His heart swelled with nostalgia and when he at last rounded the small bend in the path and saw the familiar wood palisades of the village he broke into tears. Joyful tears. 
  He reached the gates and stood. There were two lookouts on platforms, high above. They recognized him. One of them cupped his hands and shouted below. There was movement behind the gates and then Gawoni poked his head out of one of the lookout holes. Then he shouted down.
  “Open the gates. It’s him alright. Such as he is.”
  “He does not look the same. He looks sick.”
  “I can count his ribs from here.”
  The gates swung open and the boy picked up the bucket and his satchel and went inside. He nodded to the lookouts but they were stonefaced. He walked the path through the village center and looked around in amazement. Everything was exactly the same and yet looked completely different to his eyes. His eyes welled with tears as he saw familiar faces emerge from their homes.
  “A miracle. I thought he was dead for sure.”
  “Yet here he is.”
  “But where is the rest of him?”
  The villagers laughed.
  “The boy with the bow has come back to us.”
  “Doubt he’ll be drawing bowstrings anytime soon. Look at those arms.”
  “I don’t know. He carries that bucket well.”
  “Now he’s the boy with the bucket.”
  There were laughs at that. Some shouted at their friends or family to come and see. More joined the crowd.
  “What’s in the bucket?”
  “I don’t know.”
  “Where is he going?”
  Others heard the commotion and by the time the boy had reached the ceremonial grounds the entire population of the village had come to see him who had been gone for so long. He saw his mother in the crowd. She dried her eyes and looked upon him with pitying eyes. He saw the elders, even Kulsathee. He saw Leoti but she turned away when they met eyes. Mohe was there. When he came to the ceremonial grounds they did not follow him. Instead the stopped at the low gates and gossiped to one another in hushed whispers. 
  He walked up to the tree and stared up at its branches. Then he lifted off the makeshift lid from the bucket and gently poured its contents into the ground around the trunk. The dry earth soaked up the water and was gone. Then he set the bucket on the ground and stood by and he waited.
 
  It was an overcast day in early autumn. The pack of hunters stopped to rest on a high ridge, overlooking a meadow. This was the spot Turkeyfoot, a scout, had discovered a herd of doe the previous morning.
  “Twenty strong, no lie.”
  A shallow creek wound through the area, its current swift and water clear. Mist-sodden leaves from the surrounding trees patchworked the ground in shades of red, yellow, and brown. One of the elder hunters pointed to the creek.
  “No doubt the water brings them here.”
  The others nodded in agreement.
  Turkeyfoot pointed out the exact spot he saw the herd emerge from the forest line. He had been long in these woods tracking the movements of another tribe while hunting deeper inside the neighboring valley.
  The elder huntsment surveyed the clearing and the best strategy would be a deer drive, a method of hunting which uses carefully arranged hunters to push a herd into an area where they have no escape and are therefore easily picked off with bow and arrow, typically from a high vantage point.
  It started to drizzle and the men draped their coats over their heads and ducked underneath some outcroppings on the ridge. Drizzled turned to rain and pattered on the rocks and onto the treetops. Cold pemmican was rationed to the men and they sat together and ate. Because of the long trek they were famished and most of them finished off their portion quickly and asked for another, which they were granted with a reluctant grunt. As they ate they debated strategies for the drive.
  In a deer drive the hunters are divided into three groups - drivers, standers, and snipers. Depending on the location there are many possible ways to arrange the groups, and how many of each should be used. For this drive there was not much argument where the snipers should be. The ridge had a perfect view of the meadow and the shear cliff would be a good barrier against which to drive the herd.
  Mika ate his ration in silence. He did not talk much since his return and nobody much talked to him. He was very underweight and though his strength had come back, his skills were nothing like they were before, and everyone knew it. He listened to the other hunters argue about where the driving line should be placed, which was important to them.
  “That isn’t right. We should be as close as possible to the cliff edge, but adjacent to it. Like so.”
  The hunter held up his arms in a cross shape to indicate what he meant to the others. They nodded, thoughtfully.
  “No. You want the first line waiting by the southern edge of the woods, assuming the herd approaches from the east. Isn’t that where Turkeyfoot spotted them?”
  “Don’t remember.”
  Another hunter shouted to the scout, who was off by himself, observing distant plumes of campfire smoke.
  “What side did they come from again?”
  “The west.”
  “Oh, I had it wrong. In that case, the first line needs to be there, and down fifty feet or so.”
  “That is way too far.”
  The boy listened to them but did not join in. At one time he might have been interested in that sort of thing. Not anymore. He no longer cared about the hunt. Not since he returned from the mountains. He did his duty. But he did not care. He did feel a pang of guilt about his apathy. It seemed to him like he ought to care. It was important after all, to feed their tribe. And everyone else seemed to care so much. He watched them become impassioned and turn red with anger when there was a disagreement.
  “It doesn’t matter what you think! It is not your decision at the end of the day. The elders will decide where to post every hunter, that includes drivers, standers, and even snipers.”
  “That is true,” a few echoed.
  “All I know is I better be posted as a sniper. I’m tired of being looked over.”
  “But you are a stander if I ever saw one. You stand well.”
  The others laughed. The one who wanted to be a sniper rose and made and obscene gesture at the rest of them. That only made them laugh harder.
  “You all are a bunch of frog eaters! I am a sniper. I’m going to talk with the elders. They know my aim is true. The elders know.”
  He stomped off and the other hunters watched him go, the boy included. He sat among them and laughed when they did, became serious when they became serious. He did everything he was supposed to do as a hunter.
  Yet ever since his return, all his waking thoughts were on the mountains and the lake he had found on its summit. Just as his father said he would. He thought about how he had watered the tree and how nothing had come of it after all. How the villagers mocked him because of that. Nothing at all.
  Soon the rain cleared and blue skies appeared. Ther ewas a cool wind that blew in and rustled the leaves on the trees and shook loose ones from their limbs so that they fell in lazy arcs to the ground. The elders gathered everyone and instructed them where they would post during the drive. 
  The snipers included Tye and all the best with a bow, those whose aim was true and could be relied upon. The hunter who insisted he was a sniper was not among them, but he was made a driver which placated him. The drivers were the largest group by far. They had to be strong and nimble on their feet. The last group was the standers. Nobody wanted to be posted as a stander during a drive. Yet the stander was also important. They were placed at certain locations and were responsible to hold ground and act like a human wall. The boy was selected for this role and joined the others in his group.
  Both drivers and standers were told to descend the ridge and get into their positions. They set off together with an elder to guide them to the correct spots. They had to double their pace as it was already late afternoon and had to be in position by dusk, when the herd was most likely to return.
  In the meadow the boy was told to stand at the northern edge of the clearing. This was an important spot because it was the widest gap between standers. The main driver line would be approaching from the opposite side so there was a good chance the herd would flee in this direction. The elder walked up and addressed him when he had crouched behind a treestump.
  “Are you prepared?”
  “I am.”
  From this spot the boy had a view of the entire meadow. He sat and watched as the blue afternoon skies turned to pale orange and pink. The trees were bathed in an amber glow from the descending sun, their bark darkened and still wet. He smelled the soil, sodden from the rain. All was quiet except for the creek trickling. He took in his surroundings and was taken back to a particular evening in the foothills when the skies had looked the same. It was a peaceful day, a good day out there. He  made good progress and at the end of it was exhausted in both body and mind. At camp that evening he netted a fish and could still smell it roasting on a skewer over the flames. He lay on the ground and counted as the stars appeared one by one,
  “Hunter, stand your ground!”
  The boy glanced up. He saw a deer in mid-stride, careening towards him, followed by the herd. He jumped to his feet and clumsily made the wide, stomping motions he had been trained for. But the deer leapt past, unafraid. Another grazed his arm and knocked him into the ground, his face buried in the soft dirt. In danger of being trampled he ducked behind the stump and curled into a ball. After, he rose and wiped the mud from his face and eyes.
  He saw the other hunters emerge from their places. Their heads  were hung in disbelief. The elder huntsmen cupped his hands and shouted up to the ridge, where one of the other huntsmen stood, hands on knees.
  “Head us back to camp. We missed our chance. This herd will not come again.”
  The huntsmen on the ridge frowed. He whistled for his men to pack up and then surveyed the meadow and remarked on the bounty that had been lost to them.
  “It is a shame.”
 
  On the return journey Mika kept pace behind the caravan, well behind the group of hunters and elders, who walked together. Tye was among them. His friend had not spoken to him since his return and avoided him whenever they camped. A few days later the caravan arrived at the southern gates and there was the usual crowd of family and friends. They had already news of the poor harvest and were thus more subdued than usual. Mika could not find his mother nor any of his relatives among the people. He walked home alone. 
  Inside was empty. His mother’s belongings were gone. Fearing the worst he ran to the homestead where his aunt lived. To his relief he saw his mother on the porch, playing with his nephew. He called out to her but his aunt Ayita emerged from the house and held up finger to stop him.
  “Do not come any closer to our house. You are not welcome here. Do you understand? Your mother has come to stay with us. We have decided that for now, this is the right thing to do. A woman her age should be able to rely on her son to be there, especially after losing a husband. But you cannot be relied on, can you? On a whim you decide to go on an adventure, so you take right off, with no thought given to the well-being of your mother or to the others who depend on you. Not just your family. The tribe too. You are a selfish, spoiled boy in my opinion. You have no sense of loyalty. You have no sense of duty. When your father died you were to become the man of the household. With that comes responsibility. And you did step up. You did the right thing, at first. When the blight came you did your part. I admit that. But when you left you made a decision what was really important to you, and who was really important to you. Yourself. The thing that I don’t understand is that your father was such a decent man and a beloved leader in our tribe. He helped so many, and not only his family. But I knew something had not been passed on to you. From the time you were crawling on the ground. I knew you were not truly the son of your father. For some reason you always thought you were special. You were just a little better than the rest of us. That has been obvious for a long time, and your leaving like you did only proves it. Kulsathee decreed that every able male go to the hunt. Not because he wants to wield his power to control others. But because that is what is necessary to feed us throughout the winter. For our survival. But you get an idea in your head and think that is more important than a decree from your chief and the elders. The arrogance of that! So you left your mother, and everyone, wondering where you had gone and when you would return. Every day she had to face the people in the village and apologize for your absense. At night she would come to me and cry for hours. How does that make you feel? Do you feel good? Was it worth it? I know the story. Sakima asked you to fetch a bucket of lake water and give it to that old tree. Fine, that’s great. I love that you want to honor your father’s memory. But there is a time and place for such things. To be a man is to understand what things should come first. You have shown that you are no man. You are still a boy. How will you provide for Ama? That is my concern. You say you are back to the hunt? Great. Keep it up. Prove you can provide for my sister, your mother, and she will come home again. Prove that you are a good son and someone to be relied upon and she will come home.”
  Ayita spit at his feet and stormed off into the house. From the porch his mother had heard the entire thing and her head was bowed, sobbing into her hand. Mika stood there for a few minutes, unsure what to say, and then left.
  He walked through the village center. There were children playing on the path. As he went by they mocked him behind his back and threw little rocks at his heels, causing him to stumble. He ignored them and went outside the gates. He walked the path among the pines and oaks. 
   Mika came to the small pond where he and Leoti sometimes watched the sunrise together. She was there. Next to her was Mohe. They sat on the log holding hands and smiling about something. It was too late for him to change course so he continued walking by. As he approached they both looked up. Caught unaware, they blushed. On their faces was a dazed expression. As if they had just been awoken from a lovely dream. They exchanged knowing glances and turned to Mika.
  His neck grew hot. He started to tremble and did not know what to say to either of them. He merely smiled and nodded to them both. They returned his smile. Then he waved and continued walking along the path. A little ways down he looked back and saw Leoti was watching him over her shoulder. In her sad gaze was a confession that stung his heart, *He was here and not you.*
  As the sun went down he arrived back at the homestead. He went inside and prepared dinner. He ate deer jerky in the empty house, the twilight darkening into night. He lit a candle and focused his eyes on it. Somehow the thought of being alone at home was unbearable in the night. In the day it was not so bad. But now a feeling of loneliness came over him, a feeling of panic. The stillness in the room was like a tomb. He began to cry. He cried like he had not since the seven days of mourning.
  “Father,” he whispered, “tell me what to do, for I am truly lost.”
   He imagined the spirit of his father like a mist in the same room, illuminated from within. He would ask him why he must water the tree. There seemed no good path. If only he would appear. But then, he knew such things did not happen in real life. Only in stories did they happen.
  He went to bed and wrapped himself in fur blankets. He tried to put the image of Leoti and Mohe out of his mind. He tried to forget Ayita cursing him, his mother crying. He saw the herd of deer in flight, barreling towards him. The despondant look on the faces of the elders. He saw the back of his friend Tye on the journey home. Then he saw other things. He saw a tribe with more people than he had ever seen before. Like ants they were. Like ants they moved through a labryinth of stone pathways, through mechanisms of vast complexity. Their buildings were carved to perfection from stone and unnatural materials, polished to gleam in the sun. They built machines with their hands and their minds. They built machines to build machines. It was beautiful to see, and horrible. He wondered what thoughts were on their minds and what feelings were in their hearts. The villages where they lived had few trees and ponds. There was no grass or seasons anymore. They harnessed the strength of the elements to do their work. They harnessed the water and the fire and the wind. With machines they grew enough food to feed the world entire. Some grew fat while others wasted to skin and bones. With machines they healed the sick and dying. With machines they slaughtered others and their own. With machines they scorched the land and with machines they dried up all the rivers and lakes. With machines they launched their bodies into the heavens, among the stars which have no end.

  He was on the path. Drenched from three days of rainstorms he slogged across the muddy rise of the foothills into the highlands where at last he found dry ground under a granite overhang. He made camp there and lost consciousness from exhaustion and hunger but it was not good rest and he woke in the morning tired and his mind foggy. He was hungry and very weak. It had been days since he had caught any fish. He dragged the river and caught a small trout. With no chance of starting a fire he skinned and gutted the fish and ate it raw. His energy return and he set off again.
  Rain fell in sheets over the mountains. The wind beat the rain into his eyes so he kept his head down and his eyes on the ground. Water from higher ground ran downhill and funneled into falls and tiny rivulets, and finally into the river which had flooded its banks and made the entire area into a bog. At this altitude the temperature dropped so that his breath came out as fog. His furs were soaked through and were frozen at the ends into sharp points. Since the rain started he had gotten used to the weight of it but the cold weather made it almost more than he could take.
  



[slipping on rocks, rainstorms, thunder+lightning, camping (raw fish), cannot go on, will turn back, archway blocked by avalanche, trek east over rocks, no river no fish, hungry and wet, narrow canyon, terraced plateaus for farming, passage through stone building with hole into the mountain, two snakes entwined, other side of lake, ruins for shelter, stuffs himself on fish, water is warm, swims, daydreams impossible thoughts]

how does this scene move the story along?
mika must find another way to the summit, other is closed off

what is the conflict?
fighting the elements and hunger, how to reach summit

who/what are the antagonists?
rain, thunderstorms, sharp rocks, hunger, snakes entwined

how is it resolved?
he discovers a canyon and gets through only because he is so thin. reaches the summit and has daydreams