FETUS
Daniel Stepp

You are used to the darkness by now, finding your way in the darkness, without the use of your eyes. You are walking through a forest, or a place that gives you the impression of a forest, though there are no trees, no grass, nor any leaves on the ground. No squirrels. Here is nothing you would normally associate with a forest and yet you are reminded of one. From the corner of your eyes you can see globular objects, organic perhaps, arranging themselves into familiar shapes, and yet whenever you turn they scurry out of your periphery, like cockroaches in a basement. You cannot remember when you started on the journey that brought you here, nor where you left from. You do have a vague memory, appearing like an iridescent cloud in your mind, of a time when the good things in life no longer seemed to be good and how over time the bad took its place in your heart so that eventually the memory of goodness itself was lost to you. As strange as this place is, and how disoriented you are, soon you realize there are clues that connect you back to your former self and you focus your mind intently on them, hoping to remember more. For example you know there is such a thing as a forest and that this place is not one though it seems to want you to think that it is. You also know it is a bit odd to think of a landscape as having intentions towards you, benevolent or not. Yet this is where you find yourself.

Ahead is a hillside. From up there you may be able to get your bearings and figure out where to go next.

Behind you is the shapeless forest, vanishing into an impenetrable darkness. Maybe you should go back.