AURA DIM
Daniel Stepp


"At any rate, I've had a good Russian cry over this poor fellow," she added, pointing to Myshkin, who did not even recognize her. "We've had enough of following our whims. It's time to be reasonable. And all this, all this life abroad, and this Europe of yours is all a fantasy, and all of us abroad are only a fantasy. Remember my words, you'll see it for yourself!" she concluded almost wrathfully, as she parted from Yevgeny Pavlovich.

The Idiot, Fyodor Dostoevsky

"There's nothing left alive 
but a pair of glassy eyes.
Raise my feelings one more time."

Gimme Danger, Iggy and the Stooges


Notebook

  It was a cold night in January, just before two a.m. Headlights from a vintage Dodge lit up the alley behind Huffaker Crossing, an abandoned strip mall where the Krogers used to be, where he liked to meet up with folks this side of town. The beams shined into his pickup cabin, blinding him, as the the car pulled to a stop and went dark. Nobody made the first move. It was so quiet they could hear the sleet falling onto the vehicles, the wind moaning through the power and phone cables swinging overhead. Paint flaking off the corners of the doors and the concrete pylons that shielded the air conditioning units, rust in those places. Everything cast in amber hue, from a pole at the other end of the corridor. Behind the alley was a thin tree line, behind which was an unused railroad track and beyond that a trailer park of Mexicans. At last the man in the pickup donned his hood, zipped up his jacket, and got out slowly, his right hand on a revolver in his right jacket pocket. He walked around to the passenger side, opened the door, motioned for the girl to slide over. He got in.
  [They are afraid of him, treating him like a dangerous animal, he senses it, feels glad]
  The girlfriend got out first, tight jeans, black halter, an exposed midriff even in this cold, visible stretch marks, the kindness in her eyes a giveaway. She greeted him.
  "Tina."
  Then he spoke to the boyfriend who was taking his sweet time with something in the car.
  "It's cold man. Let's do this thing."
  "Dude, what you gave us last time was straight," the girlfriend interrupted with a grin, the sound of her voice uncouth, gravelly, harsher than a female voice should be at her age.
  "Good."
  The boyfriend got out and slid up next to her. He put his arm around her waist. The man noticed some kind of bundle tucked underneath his arm, wrapped in a garbage bag. The two of them exchanged a glance so subtle it would have gone unnoticed any other night.
  "What's in the bag?" He asked.
  "Tell him babe."
  The boyfriend gave a look like he was going to slap her down.
  "I got this."
  The man palmed the gun in his pocket.
  "What's in the bag?"
  "It's cool, Will, it's cool. Chill man."
  "Don't tell me it's cool. Don't tell me to chill. Just tell me what's in that bag under your arm. Right now. Or I'm gone."
  The boyfriend glanced at the jacket pocket, assuming what his hand grasped inside. His eyes grew panicked and then he lifted both hands in an effort to calm the situation.
  "Will, dude, it's just a notebook. That's all it is. Man I knowed I should of just told you on the text. Tina said you wouldn't hear us out if I brung it up over the phone."
  "Don't blame me," she said, cupping both hands over a lighter, with a fresh cigarette dangling in her mouth. She lit and blew the smoke into the air. The sores around her mouths and eyes, the bitten nails with flaking polish, the stringy hair. He had a glimpse from their school days, her sitting in Algebra, behind him, shoe dangling off her foot, bored. 
  Suddenly he felt an agitation at having to deal with this bullshit, with the both of them, out in the cold, out in the night in this place.
  "What do you mean a notebook? What are you talking about?"
  "Show him."
  The boyfriend watched him, his eyes asking permission before moving. The man granted it.
  He set the package down on the hood of his car and unwrapped it. All the time he kept his eyes on his jacket pocket. He was not naive, Grady, just strung out. In a moment he had the bag off and held it out to him.
  "A computer?"
  "A notebook computer. Ain't that what they call them?"
  "It's a laptop, hon."
  "Whatever. Laptop. Notebook," he said, "It's a real nice one, as you can see. No scratches or dings or nothin. Works good too."
  The man regarded the computer but said nothing, just looked at them.
  "This thing you could sell on Craigslist for a thousand bucks. A thousand easy. We looked it up online."
  "But then we got to thinking," she stepped in, her voice softening, "to save time, what if you just let us give it to you in exchange for the ball? Then you could make a ton off just this one trade. Just this one time, you know. From now on we have cash."
  The boyfriend interrupted, selling it.
  "It works good, we tried it out. We can show you, its even got some battery left. No cord though. But you can get one of them at the Wal-Mart for cheap."
  The man understood. His finger relaxed on the trigger. There was no conspiracy, no LEO, no thugs around the corner, waiting to pounce. Just some fiends desperate to pawn off some loot for a fix.
  "Turn it on," he said to them.
  The boyfriend nodded.
  "Sure thing, Will. Let me show you how bright the screen be on this bad boy. Picture look sharp too. Top of the line right here. Don't make em any better."
  The computer was a nice one, the smooth aluminum body in good shape, no dings or scratches like he said. Keys all there, seemed to work. When it came on there was a bright green lock screen, and the noticed a single user account with an avatar showing picture of a DNA strand, which he pretended not to see.
  He stood back and considered their proposal, but there wasn't much to consider. No doubt he could have it sold by tomorrow, especially if he advertised on the Atlanta board. The tweakers also knew how much it was worth. It was just the disease had them in such a thrall that it didn't matter. They needed that fix to geek out and only tonight would do. So him standing back was a pose to make it seem like he was doing them a favor by accepting the offer, to have that to hold over them when the time came.
  "Whatcha think?" The girlfriend finally said, after nearly a minute of silence. The boyfriend nearly came out of his skin, his eyes widening in her direction, afraid she might blow the whole deal and they would have to endure the night sober.
  He regarded them both with careful eyes and then ran his fingers along the outside of the notebook and over the keyboard and then closed the lid.
  	
  Inside, he set the notebook on the desk and then went to the kitchenette a sackful of Krystals. He pulled down a pint of Jack Daniels from the top of the fridge and poured two fingers into a dirty glass, added an ice cube, and then lay back on the bed with the drink and the burgers, absently flipping through the basic cable stations that came with the room.
  After he was stuffed and his was head spinning. He knew in the morning he would regret eating the gut bombs so late, but that would be tomorrow's fight. He stumbled to the kitchenette and poured another, smaller drink, and started to pace the hotel room. Someday soon he would be out of this. Then he might be able to regain some kind of control, might move out of this shithole and get a regular place again, a real place. Get a dog. He thought about what Grady and Tina were doing in this moment, their minds obliterated on the drugs, there on the couch in their shit trailer out in Kingston. Obliterated, but in love. He remembered how he had once been in love. In that moment his stomach turned and he ran into the bathroom and chucked his meal into the toilet. It was this place, the filth, the cigarette smoke. Always the stale smell of it. He blamed it on that. He rose and brushed his teeth and washed his face and looked at himself in the mirror.
  He went to the kitchenette and poured another drink. He looked at the clock. Four thirty. In a few hours it would be daylight and impossible anymore for him to sleep. The curtains were no good, there was a big area at the sides where the sunlight came in brighter than all hell. So he would be tired all tomorrow. He walked to the window overlooking the parking lot. In the office on the other side he saw the fluorescent lights on, the little Indian man who ran the hotel awake, drinking coffee. He was a hard worker. He reminded him a bit of Nanda, a man he used to work with at Beaulieu before they shut the doors in 2009. He had worked the extruder there for going on fifteen years. Had seniority, was always asked to train the new guys moving up from the floor. Nanda was on the sanitation team and they used to see each other all the time in the break room, do the old routine,
  "How's it hanging, Nanda?"
  The little guy then adjusted his crotch.
  "Little to the left today," he said, "Thanks for asking."
  Beaulieu was also where he met up with Glenn, who he used to go  out camping with up in Mentone, near Little River Canyon. Glenn was the one who introduced him to Danny, who sold him weed for their camping trips. And now he worked for Rodriguez from Kennesaw, who supplied Danny and now him. That's how it happens.
  Thinking of those times brought back memories of Suzanne and he felt that empty pang in his heart, the one he always felt whenever he imagined her with another man.
  He saw a car swerve into the lot and park sideways on the side opposite of his room. Two black men got out and went to door 104 and banged on it hard. The curtain in the room opened and then the door cracked but with the safety latch in place. One of the men stood back and kicked the door in. Then the both of them rushed inside and beat the shit out of the man inside. He assumed it was a man, all he saw was them huddled over some dark shape, punching and kicking as furiously as he had ever seen. A girl appeared in the door and shouted for help. The men rose and pushed her into the room, and then left. His eyes went to the Indian in the office, who was looking in the direction of the room, on the phone. The men came out, breathing hard, got in the car, and sped off. The entire thing didn't last more than a few minutes. He could see the man inside writhing on the floor, the girl hovering over him.
  He was far from it. Only dimly did he hear the sirens of the ambulance when it arrived. Everything was unreal. The room was spinning, so he sat down on the hard chair and put his head in his hands, but that only made the spinning worse. He wretched again and came back and lay on the bed. Thoughts of Suzanne and his old life, camping with Glenn, high as a kite and talking shit about the existence of God, his old job at the carpet mill. His boy.
  His eyes went to the television on the dresser. It was the news, a replay of the eleven o clock news. There had been an explosion at a research lab at the local college. Helicopter footage of the building in flames, charred debris at the windows and doorways, completely destroyed. No survivors the newswoman said. They showed pictures of them. Young, grad students. Then there was a cutaway to some video footage outside the place, a closeup of Grady and Tina, carrying a gasoline can and other tools into the building. He rose from the bed but the dizziness caused him to fall off. He got to his feet and slapped himself and tried to pay attention but he was too drunk, the details were slipping by him. Then there was some grainy footage of a vintage Dodge driving off, the tail lights and smoke unmistakable. Then there was a number at the bottom of the screen to call for any information. Then the story was over and they moved on to the weather.
  His went to the computer on the dresser. He lifted the lid and turned it on. Once again he looked at the account avatar, the cute graphic of a DNA strand, and a username, z.jackson. It was password protected.
  From the corner of his eye he saw the red and blue flashing lights behind the curtain and in his drunken state he was startled by them. He knelt low and crawled to the window, peering out. It was only then he remembered the beating and the ambulance. Now two patrol cars were also in the parking lot, a group of them talking near room 104. He rose to his feet and saw others in other rooms watching, like him. The girl was crying, crossing her arms in the cold, giving a statement to one of the officers. The other officers in the group leered from the corner of their eyes. All she wore was a thin silk gown. He found himself also fixated on the shape of the woman, on her breasts through the gown, on her nipples through the silk.
  He remembered the first time they kissed, Spring break in Panama City Beach. He worked up the courage and asked her to walk the fishing pier with him. She said yes. After they went dancing. He was not the dancing type but he liked to dance with her. They walked down to the beach and he took a chance and kissed her slowly on the cheek, awkwardly. They dropped to the sand and he kissed her neck and looked up and saw her eyes closed in ecstasy. He lifted her shirt and kissed her smooth, pale stomach, lifted her bra and kissed her breasts. Then he kissed her deeply and could still remember how their embrace felt, close, as if two souls were holding onto the other at the edge of an abyss. He thought of their time together, then years later, just after the delivery of their son. It hurt him to think of his son. As much as it hurt to revisit these memories of her, it was unbearable to think of him, even when drunk. Especially then.
  The police were gone. The door to room 104 was closed. The woman in the silk robe nowhere to be seen. The Indian in the office was back to his coffee. Just over the roof of the hotel the sky was turning from night to a dim, pinkish gray color. Morning commuters in traffic on the road beside the hotel. His head had stopped spinning at last, but his mind was far from clear. His eyes landed on the pool in the center of the parking lot, unkept, unused in years, covered with a tarp partially blown open. Green, stagnant water lapped at the sides of the once ocean blue lining, now a hard plastic white. The sight of it took him to a vacation with his dad and brother and sister, to Fernandina beach when they were just kids. Though they had never seen the ocean they were more excited about the pool at the hotel and their dad reluctantly agreed to let them leave the beach to go there for the afternoon. How clearly he could still remember the smell of that water and the bright orange arm floats his little brother wore, only five. The brown siding of the hotel, the bright blue against it, looking up. The white clouds. It was all there as if it were yesterday, funny how clearly he could still recall that time and even smell it. Then a feeling inside of how far he was from those days, at how happy he had been then, at how fun it all was and how his life would never again been so much fun. He thought about that and thought about his son and if he would ever remember back on him as he remembered his own father and that was the last thing he thought before sleep took him.
  
Text Message

  Morning. Light bled in from the bottom of the door and from the useless curtains which never closed all the way. He awoke on the bed, his head towards the foot of it, on top of the blanket and sheets. No pillow. He always slept that direction to be closer to the heater. Using his left arm as a pillow had cut off its circulation. He moved his arm for several minutes before the pinpricks faded. He had slept hard in the night and had not dreamed. There had been a heaviness to his sleep that was hard to shake off, hard to keep his eyes open. It was not just the whiskey, though it didn't help.
	The TV was still on. Such was his dreamy state of mind, one second the room was silent then the next he heard the sound of it blaring, a particularly obnoxious commercial about breakfast cereal. He lay there and listened, his eyes still too heavy to get out of the bed. Soon he heard the news, a beautiful Latina voice reading the local headlines from the Atlanta metro area.

  "Top story this morning, we have updates on the break-in and subsequent explosion, which occurred last night at a technology research center on the Berry College campus in North Georgia. Footage was recovered which showed an old car speeding through the security gate at 11:05 pm. The car drove to the research center and two suspects emerged with garden tools and a can of gasoline. They broke into the building, as seen on this footage, by smashing the glass doors, triggering the alarm. Ten minutes later they emerge from the building, carrying unidentified objects, and speed away. Approximately 11:37 pm an explosion occurs in the east side of the building, and slowly spreads until it is visible on the security tape, here. It was thought originally the building was empty, but we have confirmation from school security there was a single student logged into the building, apparently working late, and so far authorities have not been able to locate this student. We have approval from local police to show an image of the student, who has been identified as Zoey Jackson, a graduate student in the computer science program at the college."
	
  He arose and watched the story intently, the recollection of the news from last night coming back to him, slowly, vaguely. His blurred vision focused on the image of the student, a nice looking black girl, smirking, the mugshot-like quality of the photograph obviously from her student identification.
  
  "Ms. Jackson has so far not been found, nor reached by contact information on school records. Police have begun a search for Ms. Jackson and would like us to provide a phone number where you may call anonymously to provide information, about this incident. If you do have information, either regarding the whereabouts of Ms. Jackson or the two perpetrators, please call the number at the bottom of the screen. In other news..."
  
   It came back to him, how he had recognized the unmistakable tail lights of that old Dodge in his drunken state last night. But then there was just a blank. Nothing. He remembered nothing else. But it was them. Who else would drive such a piece of shit? And then it hit him. He shook off the remnants of sleep and went to the table by the window. There on the table was the notebook, the computer Grady and Jenn had convinced him to trade for the drugs last night. He opened the lid and turned it on. The login screen came up and he recognized the username from last night, z.jackson.
   He shut the lid and went to his phone. It lay next to the bag of empty Krystal boxes, now crawling with roaches, feeding on the dried onions and mustard. "No. No. Please don't let me be that fucking stupid," he said, and then let out a tortured "Fuck me" when he saw his last text to Grady,
   
Saw yr ass on the news just now!!! The fuck? Lotta nerve tradin me hot shit. Hit me back!
   
  He looked at the text in disbelief and finally tossed it on the bed. He paced the room for the next fifteen minutes, stopping only to vomit in the toilet, a combination of nerves and the hangover. He poured some water from the bathroom faucet and drank it down. His mouth was dry and now slimed and the cold water washed away the acid taste. He went to the window and peaked out, the parking lot during the day emptied out as the out-of-town construction workers and electricians went to work. Nobody was outside. He saw the woman who worked the day shift in the office, on the phone. Then he turned back to the room.
  He went to the bathroom and pulled down a rag hung over the shower rod, wet it and returned to the computer. He wiped it down, picking it up with a t-shirt, both inside and out. Then he placed it in the Krystal bag and tied a knot. Roaches escaped and scurried behind the mirror. He put on his jacket and beanie and took another peak out the window. Nobody. He grabbed his wallet and keys and went out the door.
  Outside he turned to the right, where an old busted washer and drier sat unused. Then the ice machine, which was. The only thing past the machines was a small empty yard behind the office and a chainlink fence marking the boundary of property. He went towards the yard, around the end of the building and turned a corner to the right. This led him to the alley behind the rooms, a narrow dirt path parallel to the fence, woods behind. Now the bathroom window of all the rooms overlooked this alley, so he knelt low and crept as fast as he could with the bag in hand, all the way down.
  At the other end of the building, around that corner, was a brown garbage bin. There was a thin row of pines separating the bin from the road, sidewalk, morning traffic going by. The bin was closed from this side, since everybody used the more convenient side facing the hotel entrance. But he wanted to remain unseen. He waited and then when he was sure nobody was around he crept up beneath the back of the bin. He slid open the backside and tossed in the bag then closed it. Then he went back the way he came, the same way he went before, creeping, quiet.
  He got in his pickup and looked at the text once again. He nearly picked up the phone to call Grady, then thought better of that. He nearly sent a text, then realized just how stupid he was being. He pumped the gas a couple times then turned the ignition. He let it warm up then pulled out and headed down Martha Berry then up the bypass, towards Kingston.
  The local station was playing music, top 40, interrupting only for weather updates, more cold, black ice on bridges, but no news about the break-in. No panic. He kept a close watch in his mirrors for any police. He was taking a chance but the data on that phone was incriminating. He was sure it was a burner, he didn't deal with folks who didn't have one, but as long as it was on their person it could incriminate him. And that could not happen. He went the long way, around Ward mountain, instead of the more direct route. He came up Price Road where he knew there was a dirt utility road leading into the woods which surrounded the trailer park where they lived. He drove up and down the road a couple times, to lookout for any police, any suspicious vehicles. Nothing. It was still soon. Good he acted when he did.
  He turned into the utility road and navigated the deep ruts and icy mud holes until he was well hidden amongst the pines. He tucked the gun into his jacket pocket and got out. He made a best guess which way into the woods would lead him to their trailer. He had only been there once, years ago, when he and Grady were drinking buddies and not customer client. The dried leaves made so much noise as he shuffled into the woods he wondered if this was a better idea than just driving up. He did his best and tried not to shuffle as best he could.
  Gusts of wind blew through the pines, a soft mournful kind of wind, he stopped and leaned against a tree. In the clearing he could see the backside of a trailer. He continued and when he emerged from the wood line, he crept along the edge, where he could walk quietly. Down towards the cup-de-sac he recognized the faded yellow of Grady and Jenn's place, a collapsed back porch and gas tank was in back. That gave him a good place to sneak up without being detected.